I don't think there is any excuse saying
that you can't start a venture capital
firm with no money because I was
literally flat broke uh when I started
Abstract.
>> Did you filed bankruptcy?
>> I literally had filed bankruptcy at 24
years old when my previous startup
company had failed. I was literally out
of bankruptcy starting a venture capital
firm.
>> All right. So I think the place we have
to begin is in the art world. I I think
you have the most systematic intense art
collector story that I've heard and I
want to start here not because it's like
some esoteric side topic but because I
think there will be lots of inspiring
points for what we'll talk about in
investing as well uh not art but
companies um so can you just lay out for
us your art collecting journey like
where it started why you got interested
in it and as and how you began to learn
about how the art world actually works
because I basically that's my basic one
big question explain how this works to
us.
>> I have two incredibly close mentors. Um,
one who introduced the two of us,
Michael Oitz, and then another guy named
Stuart Peterson. Uh, both of them have
worldass art collections. Michael has
like a storied art collection. I'm sure
you've seen it.
>> Yeah.
>> But I spent a lot of time at their
houses um over the years. And every time
I went, I kind of just tried to learn a
little bit more about what was in their
house. and they could both spend two,
three hours walking you around their
home and talking about what they have
and how they got it and the the story
behind it, the history behind it, the
significance of it. And I always just
thought that was really interesting and
I never really had much time for hobbies
and it was one that I thought my wife
and I could enjoy together. Um, I needed
to find the golf and I I thought golf
was a little one-sided. So for me, art
collecting seemed like it could be golf
for both me and my wife. Um, so then I
just started dabbling in understanding
the markets and then I realized nothing
in Michael's collection is attainable.
Uh, so kind of scratched most of those
artists off my list. Um, and then I
looked at Stuart's collection and most
of it was unattainable. Some of it was
artists who were still somewhat
attainable. And then I worked with an
adviser briefly just so I can
familiarize myself with the market. And
then once I spent enough time
familiarizing myself with the market, I
realized like anything, if you're going
to invest time and resources into
something, you're better off doing the
majority of the work yourself.
Obviously, it's good to have people like
advisers who are experts who are boots
on the ground in the ecosystem advising
you here and there. But I think you need
to maintain the relationships with the
galleries yourself. You need to maintain
the relationships the auction houses
yourself. Even having some direct artist
relationships yourself. So I spent time
and energy and resources dedicated to
learning as much about it as I possibly
could. So um I wanted to collect
primarily contemporary artists and
primarily living artists. And I decided
to collect three different buckets of
artists and I break them down by
generation. So I have artists who are
two generations before me and these guys
are in their mid to late 60s, early 70s.
Artists that are maybe one generation
before me. These guys are late 40s to
late 50s. and then artists of my
generation and that's everyone who's you
know 28 years old to 38 years old and I
started to understand you know who is
important in the conversation at a given
time and who is getting uh museum
institutional interest like who are are
museums paying attention to who are
museums hosting uh exhibitions for um
what makes this artist unique where does
this artist draw inspiration from and
also there's a lot of artists that are
great and have all those boxes, but
might necessarily be something that I
want to live with. And I personally, uh,
my wife as well, we like living with our
art. So, even if something could be like
a great asset to hold, if we don't want
to hang it up on our walls, we don't
feel right about the concept of just
hanging of buying art for the port
purpose of putting it in storage. two
generations before me, it tends to be
more heavily dominated like white male
artists, guys like Richard Prince, uh
guys like Christopher Wool, uh George
Condo,
and uh a generation before me, uh it's
guys like Mark Gro, and uh a lot of
female artists like Jenny Savile, uh
Laura Owens, Cesaly Brown, um Jacqueline
Humphre, and then in my generation, um
it's more along the lines of Rashie
Johnson, uh Christina Quarl, Avery
Singer, Marina Ryance, Anna Wyant. Um,
and all of these artists tend to be now
uh represented by all of the blue chip
galleries. And when I started dabbling
into the art world is when I realized
that there's actually like an
overwhelming number of parallels between
the venture world and the art world,
primarily in the way like blue chip
galleries work and the way that the big
platform venture capital firms work. But
if at any given time there's you know 50
important practicing artists in the
world um or even the estates of the most
iconic dead artists they tend to be
represented by the big four galleries.
Hower, Gigosian, Zwer, Pace,
and once they're represented by those
galleries, they are now deemed a blue
chip artist and their prices are very,
very high. But their prices tend to
sustain or even appreciate because those
galleries are very large and they have
very big clients and they represent a
lot of institutions. So, they can
control the markets for those artists.
So, people tend to be more comfortable
paying a premium to buy art from those
galleries because of the inherent safety
net you get when buying from them. Um,
but then I started to realize that
there's, you know, smaller galleries and
even smaller galleries beyond that that
tend to share a lot of artists with the
larger galleries. And it's because they
were the ones who initially discovered
them. And it's the same ones over and
over again, similar to the venture
capital world. You have the four, five,
six top venture capital firms in the
world that tend to have exposure to
every power law company in any
generational company in any given
vintage. And then more often than not,
you'll see the same firms that financed
those companies earlier and earlier and
earlier. And like the big venture
capital firms try to maintain
relationships with those firms that spot
talent earlier and earlier, the big
galleries tend to maintain relationships
with a few of the mid-tier or smaller
tier galleries early. So then what I
started to do after that was spend time
with those galleries that I started
noticing were the early spotters of
talent and finding these artists early
in their career that had a high, you
know, so to speak, graduation rate um to
getting picked up by the blue chip mega
galleries. And then as soon as that
happened, their prices basically
quadruple. Um not saying that's the
purpose behind doing this, but obviously
it's nicer to pay 25% of the cost of
something versus full full value. And
then so yeah, basically just started
maintaining those relationships and then
trying to see what I actually liked from
their programs because like anything not
100% of the artists graduate. So from
there that's when you have to start
apply some of your own judgment and hope
that you have the right taste to
identify you know what are other people
going to find appealing? What are
institutions going to find appealing?
>> What made a collection like ovitzes
unattainable? That's like an interesting
word. What why could you not replicate
it? And I guess behind that question is
what is shared in common from your
perspective of the collections that you
respect the most?
>> The reason Oitz's collection is not
attainable is due to the sheer value of
it. Um, and the reason it's not like
there's this one art list, I'm blanking
on the name of it, that that ranks
collections based on the means at which
they were obtained. Um, which is
actually really interesting because
people today say like Steve Cohen and
Ken Griffin have the world's greatest
collections, and they probably do. Um
but they don't assign the same uh score
to them because
>> it's like a low IR collection.
>> Exactly. Right. So like if you can
afford to buy any piece of art in the
world, it's easy to know what the 50
most iconic things in the world are and
you just have to and everything's for
sale in the art world. So as long as
you're willing to pay the price, you can
build that collection, right? And then
the the
collection that scored the highest
score, and I'm going to I don't remember
their name, but it's easy to look at
this article. um was a wife and husband
who were both uh who were both
government employees. The the husband
was a was a postman and the wife was a
librarian and they spent their weekends
uh collecting art in the '60s and they
were collecting Pollocks and Rothkco and
they and by the way they ended up giving
it away all to museums. They never
actually did it for for any monetary
gain, but their collection ranked so
high because they were actually able to
judge based purely off of talent and
skill before anybody had any idea who
these artists were and before there was
any value assigned to their assigned to
their work. Um so I do believe you know
in every great generation in every you
know decade long period decade long
window there are certain bodies of work
that are considered iconic that if you
think to that decade these are
considered iconic bodies of work in the
80s you have the Richard Prince Cowboys
um which Michael has probably one of the
greatest ones out there still has a
couple of great ones um but these were
basically old Marlboro bro ads that uh
Richard Prince had basically ripped out
of magazines and then turned them into
photography graphy and sold them. But
they became iconic because he sort of
owned the concept of appropriation as an
artist. Um, and then, you know, in the
early 2000s, late 90s, Richard Prince
came out with those nurses where he was
printing out those old nurse book covers
and then painting over them. And then
that became more iconic thing about
appropriation. And then you had Tracy
Emmen with her, you know, she was a lot
more graphic than most female artists
were in the '9s about, you know, the
female body as a subject. when you're
trying to identify those things in real
time, it's very very difficult because
there's a lot of art show you know
exhibitions at any time in the city of
New York. I mean like New York is like
the king of exhibitions right and
there's ones that are positively
acclaimed but you know two three years
that artist fizzles out. So when you're
collecting artists who are practicing
and active it's very challenging because
you know there's a thousand artists in
any generation and only you know 10 of
them end up mattering 20 or 30 years
later. I collect active and then I try
to go back and look at some historical
things. And for whatever reason in the
art world um and this is actually if you
look at all the data in the art world,
it tends to work like this this cycle
continuously where things that were
iconic 20 years ago tend to be de
undervalued 20 years later then get very
highly valued 30 to 40 years later. So I
tend to find things that were the
undisputable iconic bodies of work from
the '9s and 2000s that today might be
out of favor. And a lot of the people
who were very iconic in the 90s and the
2000s happen to be white male artists
who are currently out of favor in the
art world. And there's not a lot of
demand for their work, but it's a really
good buying opportunity for those
artists, at least in my opinion. Um, and
then the next thing you look for is
depth in that artist's collector base.
So, there are certain artists who have
huge followings. They put out, you know,
50 paintings through their multiple
galleries per year and they're all sold.
They have 50 paintings that show up at
auction and they all sell and they clear
large price tags because their art
appeals to a large demographic of
collectors and George Condo and Rashi
Johnson are probably the two artists
that fit the most squarely in that
bucket today. And then there are artists
who are a little bit more niche who have
collectors um and their markets are very
very strong but their markets can't
sustain you know 50 paintings 100
paintings transacting every year. Their
markets can sustain you know 8 to 12
very high value paintings transacting
every year. So then you always try to
think about that in your calculus
because you're like, well, if the market
depth is shallow and I'm a young
collector and everybody else collecting
this artist is 30 to 40 years older than
me in 20 to 30 years, am I going to be
the only person who's collecting this
artist? So there's a lot of things to
try to think about there, but I think at
the end of the day, you're really just
trying to buy art that stands the test
of time.
>> Is there any interesting thing you've
learned about the literal cost of things
and and what generates return from that?
>> This is this has changed dramatically in
recent years. Zitz always tells me that,
you know, he wishes I started my
collecting 20 to 25 years ago versus
starting collecting today. And I asked
what was different about 20 to 25 years
ago. And he said 20 to 25 years ago, you
know, entry- level art was $10,000. And
blue chip art, you know, not blue chip
kasos and Rothos, but like blue chip
contemporary art was in the order of
magnitudes of like lowund thousands. 20,
25 years ago, you could walk into a
gallery and if there was a painting you
liked. Um, you could take it home, you
could place it on hold, you could live
it within your living room for two weeks
and decide whether or not you wanted it
and you could make a gallery and offer
to 20 to 25% less than than than what
they were asking for it and have the
painting. The number of collectors in
recent years has dramatically increased.
Here's another parallel to venture. Um
the same way the number of investors
have dramatically increased and as a
result the entry valuations to art have
dramatically increased as well and the
competition to acquire art has
dramatically increased as well. You know
there's 10 20 artists exhibiting primary
shows um with with a given gallery and
that artist will present 12 paintings in
that show and that'll be the only 12
paintings they make available to the
public for the next two years. Um, and a
100 people want those paintings and now
the now you have to jump through hoops
of well you're saying well I'll buy this
painting and I'll also buy one painting
give it to a museum if you give this one
to me. So the the real costs of actually
collecting are not what the prices of
are the primary because you actually
can't get you can't just walk in and pay
that much for the painting and get it.
And one of my mentors tells me he's
never bought a painting for less than
$100,000 that he's made any money on. So
I do think the barriers of entry are
quite high um to actually get the higher
quality blue chip art. Obviously, like
there are totally still examples today
where you can get lucky and get
something before it's truly discovered
and and and do well on it financially. I
do think like anything when competition
comes into the market, the market
services that demand. So there's way
more artists represented by these
galleries today than historically. I
mean historically these galleries would
represent 10 15 artists. Now the bigger
galleries are representing 75 to 80
artists. Smaller ones are representing
25 to 30 artists. They're putting shows
on for them constantly. Every day in my
inbox, I'm probably getting 30 previews
for exhibitions for new shows opening by
new artists. So, similar to seed
investing, like the volume of the volume
of art you're being sent daily and the
entry prices to access, you know,
entry-level art are just getting
astronomically higher. Um, so, you know,
your your bar needs to be incredibly
high for for the new living contemporary
artists. But it honestly makes the the
value investing of looking to, you know,
what is the art that's proven the test
of time that might be an opportunity to
get a great example of today. um what
might those opportunities be? I'd say
probably the most interesting thing I've
learned about the art world, which is
something I didn't appreciate until I
started actively collecting is quality
of a painting versus just like work by a
given artist. And it's why you see
certain Picassos sell for 5 million and
one sell for 100 million. Like I never
truly understood the concept of
masterpiece until I I I started actively
collecting. But you know, in every
exhibition put on by a new artist today,
as I mentioned, there's 12 paintings.
And of those 12 paintings, there's
probably one that's incredible that
everyone's going to be fighting over and
two that are really good that most
people will be happy with. And then the
rest of the show is kind of just like
the artist made like 20 paintings and
then the gallery was like we could sell
12 of them. And what you start to notice
over time is the most dramatic
appreciation in art happens in the
highest quality examples of their work.
It's somebody could look back and be
like that was one of the best paintings
that artist made. And that's what's so
special about Michael's collection is he
has definitive masterpieces by some of
the most iconic artists in history,
right? So there are certain artists who
have a lot of depth in their collection.
You know, they might have 20 Picassos or
they might have eight or nine Twamblies.
Um Michael, you know, I think he's got
three Picassos, but I think he's got the
three best Picassos ever. Um and he's
got probably the best Mark Rothkco I've
ever seen. He's got the best Fron Klein
I'd seen. Even on contemporary artists,
he has the single best Laura Owens
abstraction. I think that was ever
released to the public. So, I think what
he was really good at doing is, you
know, like anything else, there's
competitive dynamics. People get, you
know, drawn into the competitive game
of, well, I can't get that painting.
Just give me this one instead. Right?
And I think a lot of it has to do with
the discipline of waiting until you can
actually get the highest highest quality
examples of the best work by these
artists, cuz there's no shortage of
collectors homes you could walk into.
That's like lowquality art by great
artists. um where they kind of just
wanted to have a home filled with art by
recognizable artist names, but nothing
that in their collection is something
that, you know, a real collector would
say is truly great.
>> When we talk about abstract, I'm going
to ask about the time that you spent
studying power law outcomes in
companies. I mean, one of the lessons
I've learned from doing this show for so
many years is that that concept, that
power law concept applies literally
everywhere. And it sounds like not only
does it apply in art, but actually
within a given artist's collection of
work. So the idea of masterpiece or high
quality is really interesting to me.
What can you say about those two
concepts and what you've learned about
them? It it's so strange because there's
no earnings against which to measure you
know success. There's nothing really
quantitative. It's in the eye of the
collective beholder. But but what is try
to define you know what's shared in
common amongst high quality or
masterpiece works. I think in the art
world like it's
very definitive examples of what that
artist is known for. Um something that
you could look at and basically say this
is exactly what the artist was trying to
get across in his message and it came
through very clearly in this painting um
or this sculpture. Often times you'll
see a painting by an artist and you'll
have to do a double take to actually
like to realize which artist actually
painted it. Right? So there are certain
paintings that you look at by an artist
and it's so obvious that it was painted
by that artist. You within the first
second of looking at it, you know who
painted it. Um so that's obviously a
really good indication. And then a lot
of it is just like frame of reference.
You don't actually appreciate what is a
great example until you've seen tons of
examples, right? So it's a phrase that
oates always talks about frame of
reference. I'm sure you've heard of him
mentioned before and it's the same thing
with the more companies you meet, the
easier it gets to discern what the
better companies are. the more art you
look at and the more art you look at by
a specific artist, the easier it becomes
to identify what a great example of that
artist is. And you know, certain things
you look at, you're like, well, this
looks like one of their paintings, but
it looks like a messy version of one of
their paintings. Or this looks like a
painting that they started working on
and they realized it wasn't going in the
right direction, so they kind of halfass
the rest of it versus like this is
something like they nailed and they know
they nailed it. And a lot of that just
has to do with, you know, training your
own eye and looking at a lot.
>> Talk about the role of status in the art
world, both for collectors, for
galleries, for artists.
>> So, that's a real thing. I don't
actually get involved in any of that cuz
that I don't have time for it. Like I I
don't think I've ever gone to actual
exhibition opening. It's part of the the
upside and downside of being in San
Francisco is there's no art in San
Francisco. So, I don't think I've ever
bought anything um that I saw in person
before buying it. I've only ever bought
previews. Yeah, cuz you have to find
time to actually fly somewhere and go
see something in person and I don't have
my schedule unfortunately is not lend me
to have that leisure to do that.
>> Um, but I think absolutely I think it's
very common in the New York world. Um,
especially among finance guys who are
active art collectors. I think it
becomes competitive dynamics of, oh, you
have one of these, I actually have the
better one. Oh, we're both fighting over
the same painting. I'm the one who got
it. Um, and then I think that's where,
you know, the galleries leverage
leverage those competitive dynamics to
do what's ultimately best for the
artist, right? So, at the end of the
day, artists actually don't want their
art in people's homes. They want their
art in museums. And they don't want
their art to go in someone's living room
where only 20 people will ever see it.
They want it to be hung up in the MoMA
where millions of people will see it
over time. And that's why you see a lot
of these guys on the boards of those
museums because those museums want to
ultimately foster the relationships with
the people that have the greatest
collection. those collections, at least
a large portion of them, one day end up
in their museum. And that's why museum
affiliation is also a really great way
to access great art. Um, because
galleries are more inclined to give
great paintings to people who are on the
boards of the MoMA and the Met and the
Whitney and the Guggenheim because they
know that more likely than not, this
painting maybe not tomorrow, but
eventually will end up in the collection
of this museum. So that is definitely
where status comes into play. That's why
you want That's why when you see the
boards of these museums, they don't look
like boards of any other industry in the
world because the boards unlock access
to what these guys consider to be the
greatest art.
>> What is surprising about how the big
four houses work that you've learned?
>> I mean, the funny thing is that they
they compete for the artists very
similarly to the way VCs compete for
deals, right? like it's very obvious who
are the artists who are the most in
commercial demand, who are the most in
institutional demand and who they could
see building their careers over the next
10, 20 years. And the courting process
is the same, right? It's like we'll do a
better commission split with you, you
know, like it's it's not 50/50 with us.
We'll we'll go 6040. We'll go 7030. Um
do you want a signing bonus? Here's a
million dollars cash up front. Like go
with us. Don't go with them. It's very
competitive dynamics amongst them to to
get the best artists and then artists
are always leaving one and going to the
other. I still don't quite understand um
because generally speaking in like the
talent world contracts are pretty
ironclad. You can't just go from one
person to the next but there is I still
don't quite understand how that works.
I'm still curious to learn that aspect
but artists do frequently go from one
gallery to another.
>> What are the keys to being known or
building a reputation as a great
collector? There's like things that
Owitz has taught me over the years,
right? Like in the early parts of my my
collecting, you know, there was a
painting that I wanted and they didn't
offer me that one. They offered me the
consolation prize instead. And I was
talking to Oitz or Steu. I'm like, "What
do you think? Should I take it?" And
they said, "No, because if you do,
>> you're Paty."
>> Exactly. Right. Like they're going to
know that they can, you know, just keep
giving you consolation prizes, right?
Like ultimately they want you as a
collector. So if they realize you're
only going to buy what you want to buy,
they'll ultimately give you what you
want. If if you if you play along and
play ball, but if you, you know, you're
the guy they can give second tier and
third tier work to, you will always be
the guy they give second and third tier
work to. So there's that aspect of it.
And a lot of it is just staying top of
mind. What's worked best with me is, and
works best for me in venture also,
right? Like I see early stage seed
companies at a high level of frequency
because I stay top of mind for my
founders who have friends that might be
starting companies. I stay top of mind
for angel investors that are actively
grooming uh the next generation of
founders and and are looking for people
to introduce them to introduce them to
to lead their seed rounds. But in the
art world, it's the same thing. It's,
you know, sending sending your dealer a
gift when their baby's born, sending
them Christmas gifts, uh you know,
checking in from them from time to time.
And the reason I mentioned staying top
of mind is the most competitive time to
get a painting is during an artist's
primary exhibition or during a fair like
Basel because they send that preview out
to their entire collector base. 5,000
people are going to see that painting
and your art, you're definitely not the
only person who wants that individual
painting and your odds of getting that
are just close to nothing unless you're
willing to jump through a million hoops
to get there. But every single artist, I
mean, they're working. They need to make
money. So, more often than not, you
know, in between exhibitions and in
between fairs, they might make one
painting and give it to the gallery and
say, "Please sell this for me." And
that's where I found most of my work.
It's the artist just made this one
painting available. We're offering it to
you and three other people. please let
us know what you think. And your odds
are much higher when it's just shared
with you and two or three other people.
>> If you think about um the artists, the
galleries, both kinds of galleries, the
collector who buys and then maybe sells
in the future, um other players, auction
houses, etc., who makes the most money?
>> I would say the galleries. I think the
big galleries uh do quite well. Um
because not only the big galleries that
have great clients and are able to
control their markets tend to not only
manage all the primary sales, but they
tend to also manage the majority of the
secondary sales. So, and this is how
they control the market, right? If
you're buying great work from Hower or
Gigoian or Zwer or Pace and you want to
sell a painting, they don't want that
painting to go to auction. They want
that painting to go back to them because
they probably have 20 other people that
might be interested in that painting.
And not only did they get their 50%
commission when they sold the painting
to you in the first place, now they're
going to get, you know, somewhere
between 15 and 25% for selling it for
you. Again, on a multiple round trips of
a painting, they probably made more
money on the painting than initial cost
of the painting. I would say they make
the most. Auction houses you would think
make, you know, just they have no costs
except for marketing and and displaying
the art. And then they take anywhere
between 15 to 26% commission depending
on the value of the art. And then I
started realizing that's actually not
the case, right? because they have
competitive dynamics also when what was
the most famous uh Paul Allen when he
passed away a few years ago uh his
entire collection uh became available
for sale and I think it was at Sabes and
the collection sold for I think well
over a billion dollars in cumulative
sales when someone like him dies or he's
an extreme example but there's plenty of
people that have collections worth 50
million 100 million 300 million and it's
usually um the estates of those people
that auctions want and it's part of the
reason that the estates actually have to
go to the auctions because obviously you
have a finite amount of time before you
have to pay the taxes and the quickest
way to sell everything to send it to
auction. Um, that's when the auction
houses start competing with each other
over commission split and guarantees.
It's more along the lines of, hey, we
will guarantee you at least $500 million
for this collection. We'll guarantee you
at least, you know, hundred million for
this collection. Um, we will reduce our
commission from, you know, 26% to 13%
because we're we're going to give half
the commission back to you. And there's
no shortage of stories where their
guarantee was they they guaranteed too
high to compete with the other auction
house and they ended up losing money or
their net margin on ended up being 2 or
3%. I don't think the auction houses
have huge market caps. I think set is
about like a $3 billion market cap and
it's well over a hundred-year-old
company. So I think good businesses not
phenomenal businesses um because I think
their their margins are a lot more
volatile than one would think um looking
into it externally. But I'd say the blue
chip galleries seem to have like endless
pockets. What they spend money on is
beautiful gallery space and and making
beautiful exhibitions, but you know they
have a cost of goods which is basically
zero and then very very large tickets
and then 50% rev share.
>> Good business. Where are venture and art
the most divergent in how the two worlds
work?
>> It's a lot easier to identify what is
going to be a great company than who is
going to be an artist that stands the
test of time. There's a lot more
tangible things you can look at. There's
much more fundamental and technical
things that you can look at that'll tell
you that something is special and
something is good. There is a market for
pricing in in the venture world that
might not necessarily be the case in the
art world. So, you know, fair market
value is very clearly determined in the
venture world. A company goes out to
fundra, an auction is run and term
sheets are offered and a price is set.
Those things are obviously very
different. They say like those are the
primary differences is really just
venture is a much more tangible even
though art's tangible but you kind of
get my point in that like there's a lot
more to underwrite.
>> Yeah. There's an E, not just a P.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay. I want to talk about the way that
you've learned the entire early stage
venture world works now. And Abstract
has very quickly become one of the firms
whose name you hear a lot. You hear your
name a lot. But I'd love you to explain
in the same way you explain sort of the
art world mark I'll call it market
structure. Could you explain your
perspective on the early stage investing
market structure just like how it works
and how it got to there?
>> Sure. The simplest way to describe this
is like how I came up with a thesis for
how abstract actually invests and this
thesis is involved has evolved over time
but the the thesis in which I started
abstract was trying to identify which
companies have the highest likelihood of
becoming power law companies. And I
identified power law by any companies
that um had had a private market cap or
exited north of a $5 billion uh
valuation. And what I'd realized over
time was that if you eliminate uh Uber
and Roblox from the equation whose seed
rounds were led by first round capital,
it's it's close to impossible to
identify power law companies in which
the seed round was led by a seedstage
venture capital firm. This has changed
in recent years which is why our
strategy has also evolved. the thesis in
which it was built off has stayed
constant and that multi-stage tier one
VC firms were better at seed investing
than than seed funds are. And it's not
to say that um they'll outperform them
because I don't think the the portfolio
construction model allows for that
anymore at the scale of those funds. But
I do believe that the power law
companies of the future um will be more
likely have seed financings led by
seedstage venture capital firms,
multi-stage venture capital firms and
seedstage venture capital firms. And you
know, in the early days, people didn't
think multi-stage firms did much seed
investing. But if you look at Sequoia,
they led the seed round for Stripe,
Airbnb, Dropbox, and New Bank. And Andre
led the first institutional rounds for
Octa, Data Bricks, and Slack. And Kosa
led the seed round for Instacart and and
Door Dash. And Index led the seed round
for Robin Hood and Figma. And Lightseed
led the seed round for Snap and I think
App Dynamics. And and the list kind of
goes on and on. But what became obvious
to me was that seed funds that claim
they had proprietary deal flow or mostly
kidding themselves. They're a little
delusional. And it's hard to believe
that a seed firm that has two or three
people have more coverage at early stage
than a multi-stage fund that has 30 or
40 people. And then it became very
apparent to me that when a multi-stage
fund and a seed fund tried to compete
with one another that it was very hard
for a seedstage venture capital firm to
compete with a multi-stage venture
capital firm. Um, oftent times
multi-stage venture capital firms had
brand weight that the seed funds
couldn't compete with, but more often
than not, it was the fact that they were
willing to offer valuation in terms that
a seed fund couldn't compete with. And I
decided to build a seedstage venture
capital business initially aligning my
interest with multi-stage funds as
opposed to aligning my interest with
seed funds. The reason I was actually
thinking that people were wrong uh when
saying multi-stage funds were were
jacking up the prices of all these deals
is, you know, we pulled the data on this
and if you look between like it was
either I think like 2008 and 2011, there
were about 1,000 seed deals funded in
that time frame or at least publicly
announced seed deals in that time frame.
So there's some survivorship bias there.
But what you need to ultimately look at
is that probably 80% of the companies
got announced because that's just what
ends up happening in ventures. So, let's
assume there was a thousand companies
and Uber was in that bucket. And if you
wrote an equal-sized check into every
single one of those 10,000 companies,
you would have gotten a 3,000x just on
Uber. So, you would have actually had a
3x net venture capital portfolio
blanketing the entire market. And then
there was also Airbnb and Dropbox and so
many other companies and Instagram um
that were funded in that window. There
is no world in which you could blanket
an asset class and should be able to
generate a 3, five, 7x. So that was very
clear sign that deals were too cheap
back then. And as anything, as markets
get more efficient over time, deals
start to price a little bit more
accurately. And I thought that seed
funds were holding on to those low
prices a little too a little too
drastically. And multi-stage funds had a
bit more of the right idea. If you start
to think that a 3000x a 3000x multiple
on a seed deal like Uber gave you a 3x
across a blanketed coverage between 2008
and 2011 then you could argue seed deals
need to be 3x more expensive as a floor.
But if you mix in all the other
companies you probably assume that seed
deals should be 5x more expensive as a
floor. Um and by the way even if that's
the case that means at an average entry
valuation of 25 million if you blanket
the entire market you should be able to
break even on your money which should
never be the case because as you know
like investing is challenging. So now
we're in a market where
you actually need to be better at
picking than you were historically. In
terms of what we started to do, um, in
the early days,
what I did was I looked the last few
hundred companies that were backed by
the multi-stage tier one venture capital
firms and I started to identify patterns
that existed in the foundaries they were
backing. And uh, venture is a pattern
matching business for better or for
worse. But what I started to notice was
that they liked founders that went to
one of these schools, got one of these
degrees, worked at one of these
companies and one of these roles and one
of these periods of time in that
company's inflection. So I started just
tracking individuals that fit the bill
um on LinkedIn and it's probably I don't
know six or seven thousand people that
that that qualified and anytime one of
them changed their job title to founder,
I got a push notification and I started
reaching out to them and that's
>> What year is this? Just to ground us.
2016,
2016.
>> And that's kind of when I realized that
um an unfunded seedstage founder might
be like the easiest person in the world
to get a meeting with. And because I
mean I was a nobody at this point in
Silicon Valley and the fact that anybody
would take a meeting with me was was
nice. And as their financing rounds came
together, I would ask for any
allocation. They would give me anything
from a $25,000 check that I raise an
angel upwards to a $500,000 check that
I'd raise as an SPV. Um and I'd use
Angelist for that. I'm probably like the
number one Angelist success story.
Angelist really catapulted my career and
I think it's actually an amazing
business that more people should should
should uh pay attention to and and and
leverage the same way I leveraged. Um
>> but I think over you know the my first
47 uh seed deals I I funded in a
10-month window between August of 2016
and June of 2017. And
>> you did 47 in that first year.
>> 47 in that first 10 months. Uh 47 deals
in that first 10 months. an and end
there. I got an angel check into
Rippling. I got a first dollar check
into Salana at four cents a a token. I
got a seed check into Clay. I got a seed
check into Cherry, a seed check into
Newfront. Uh a bunch of crypto
companies. I got into the management
company round of a hedge fund called
Polychain Capital for yeah for a brief
period of time was the largest
cryptocurrency hedge fund uh in the
world and even privates as well. And
then I got to seed a bunch of the
companies that that spun out in the
early crypto ecosystem. So, Avalanche,
DYDX, like I think our our our R SPVS
have returned close to $100 million on
on Angelist at this point. But, um,
within the first 47 companies that I had
funded, uh, two of them, you know,
Ripple and Salana have have coined
market caps of north of hundred billion
today. Uh, Rippling is is approaching a
$20 billion market cap. And everything
else I mentioned is, you know, between a
two and seven billion market cap. So,
out of 47 companies, two centacorns, one
deck of corn, and about eight or nine
unicorns. these individual types of
foundaries that I was tracking turned
out to be the right types of individuals
to track. And
>> is that how you found all those people?
>> For the most part.
>> Wow.
>> And then uh some of them were obviously
like I just spent time with every junior
VC at every single venture capital firm
in the Silicon Valley and I would have
catchup meetings with all of them on a
weekly basis and when I heard multiple
people in one week mention the same
names over and over again, I just
started reaching out to those
individuals and I got into a bunch of
deals and the
>> How did you do that? How did you get
into them? You must have had to been
quite aggressive.
>> Very aggressive. Um,
>> what does aggressive mean for you?
>> For me, it just meant being relentless.
Um, you know, just checking in
constantly, like what can I do? How can
I be helpful? I really did focus on just
being likable, though. I just wanted to
be somebody that the founders were like,
you know, he's a good guy, he's working
hard, like let's let's get him on our
cap table. And I wasn't aggressive about
my check size. I'm like, I don't care if
it's 25,000 or 500,000. Anywhere in like
anywhere in that range, I'm happy with.
So, I made myself flexible enough that
it became hard to say no to me. Um, you
know, if you if you give founders hard
constraints on an allocation you need or
ownership targeting, you make it very
easy for them to say no to you because
they're like, "Sorry, I can't make that
work." But if you're flexible, like
people just generally if they like you
want to work with you. After I I
financed those companies, three
different freaking co-investors we had
were founders Andre and Klan. I didn't
have a relationship with any of those
venture capital firms. So individuals I
was tracking turned out to be the right
individuals and the firms that I wanted
to co-invest alongside ended up being
the firms I ended up co-investing
alongside by by just the nature of
finding these these individual
foundaries to back. Um and that's kind
of when my journey sort of picked up was
um Banister who was a partner at
Founders Fund at the time but had spent
a lot of time at Angel List uh she had
noticed me and her and I spent some time
together and she introduced me to her
close friend Kevin Harts. Um, and Kevin
Harts at the time was a partner at
Foundry Fund. And Kevin Harts is a
legend in Silicon Valley. I'm sure I'm
I'm not sure if you know him, but you
know,
>> I don't know him, but I know I know the
story.
>> He founded Zoom, XOM Zoom uh in the, you
know, I think oh, early 2000
>> and Eventbrite too, right?
>> And Eventbrite as well. And and you
know, he took Zoom public and then
ultimately sold that to PayPal for over
a billion dollars. But he's also been a
phenomenal investor. He um, you know, he
was in the $3 million post money
valuation round of Airbnb. He was the
first dollar into Pinterest. He was
early in Uber. He was early in PayPal.
Um and and all roads from my network
ultimately actually lead back to Kevin
Harts. Um so Kevin and I met him and I
hit it off maybe in his first year of
tenure as a partner at Founders Fund. He
started um writing checks into a few
managers. He wanted to find a way to
work with me, but then also just opened
up his network to me. And this is part
of like the most special thing about
Silicon Valley is there are certain
people in Silicon Valley who just want
to help other people succeed. And I've
been fortunate to be blessed by having a
relationship with a lot of those people.
And Kevin met me and I think when he
ended the meeting, he basically said,
"If you were this good at this, not
knowing anybody, I wonder how much
better you'll get if you know all the
right people." And Kevin had introduced
me to Chris Dixon at Andre Horowitz and
Keith Rabo. Uh Chris Dixon introduced me
to Mark Andre. I think it was Mark Andre
who introduced me to Michael Oitz. Uh
Michael Oitz introduced him to Bill Aman
and Kevin Worsh and David Saxs. And then
ultimately um a consortium came together
with all those individuals and they uh
bought an equity stake in my management
company
>> uh when I was 26 years old. Uh that deal
had a timer on it cuz I didn't want to
be owned by anybody in perpetuity and
that lapsed a couple years ago. So I'm
I'm proud to say own 100% of my business
again. It was kind of a surreal
experience where I went from having no
network. Um, and these were only
individuals that I'd read about to
having met all of those people in a
matter of like three weeks and finding a
way to structure a deal with all of
them. Kevin and Michael were probably
the two most instrumental people in that
and and have stayed my two closest
mentors to date. And then I kept doing
the SPVS and I kept writing the angel
checks for an additional year. Um, until
at which point I realized that I
actually can can institutionalize this
approach. I set out to raise seed fund
one. Uh that was a hund00 million fund
that I raised in 2018, end of 2018. And
those guys had anchored the fund uh with
about $50 million. And then the
remaining uh chunk of the fund came from
a lot of people that looked like them.
So, you know, Josh Kushner, Matt Kohler,
uh Neil Meta, uh Leaf Excel, Dan Rose,
Thomas Lefant, Chase Coleman, Santo
Piti, and then I got a bunch of
operators. So, so Jerry Yank who founded
Yahoo, uh Frederick Crest who founded
Octa. I ended up getting four
institutional LLPs in fund one. And um
those four institutions uh were two
college endowments and two fund of
funds. But I basically rewrote the book
on portfolio construction with my first
fund. And it was part of the stems back
to what my initial part of the strategy
was. But what I was basically doing,
part of the reason I had such a hard
time attracting institutional capital
was institutions had this framework that
venture capital firms needed to own 15%
of a company in order for the math of of
a deal to work out, which never made
that much sense to me because they were
stuck on that 15% framework for like the
last 25 years. Um, and the difference is
in that 25-y year window, these funds
have grown 10, 20, 30x, but that 15%
threshold still kind of stayed a
constant or 15 20% they wanted these
firms to own. What I focused on was
ownership as a relative metric as
opposed to an absolute metric. And what
I mean by that was I knew I could get 5%
ownership in these deals very
consistently, and I knew the firms that
I was co-investing alongside can get 15%
ownership in these deals very
consistently. And back then, these firms
are much smaller than they are today.
Um, so let's assume the typical
multi-stage fund that I was co-investing
alongside in 2016 was $1.5 billion and
my fund was $und00 million. If I can get
5%, they were getting 15. Sure, I had
one third their ownership out of a fund
that was 115th the size. So I actually
had 5x the exposure. And this is
actually frustrating to explain to
people because people ask me if I had an
index approach. I'm like, it's the
opposite of that. I'm I'm the most
concentrated exposure you can get to
these companies. There's only four
institutions that truly grasp that. And
by the time we fully deployed fund one,
um it became pretty obvious that in 94%
of the companies we'd invested in, there
was not a venture fund you could have
invested in anywhere in the world that
would have gotten you more look through
ownership in that company you would have
gotten through abstract. And then our
next fund was highly institutional. Now
we're very institutional today and
everything over subscribed uh quickly in
time.
>> How many companies were in that first
fund?
>> Uh probably about 55.
>> Okay.
>> And what we did early on in that fund
was um it's purely co-investment model.
Um, I met founders and I now knew all
the tier top guys at all the multi-stage
venture capital firms. So, the companies
that I thought were were the best, I
would introduce to the relevant partner
at one of the top funds and I'd say, I
think these guys are impressive. I like
what they're working on. You know more
about this category than I do. Why don't
you take a meeting with them and if you
like it, let's find a way to work on it
together. You take your 15, I'll take my
five. And I did that about 20 times
perfectly. And what I mean by perfectly
is 20 for 20. They got their 15, I got
my five, I got a tier one co-lead. My
LPs were happy. The strategy was
working. And then I started to get like
a little annoyed um in terms of I felt
like I was doing most of the leg work
and and getting kind of like this 5%
tax. Exactly. I wanted to find a way to
start getting more ownership in these
deals while still being collaborative.
Um cuz I was still had no name at this
point in Silicon Valley and arguable
whether I have much of a name today, but
back then definitely nothing. And what I
wanted to figure out is the foundaries
that I wanted to work with wanted those
firms on the cap table. There was no
world in which I was saying you know
it's me or Andre and who are you going
to go with because I was going to lose
that 10 times out of 10. But what I
started understanding was that I could
lead these financings and breed the
multi-stage firms in as a co-lead. And
when I led, I still left enough room for
a co-lead, but I really started to
stress test how far can I push a
multi-stage firm down on ownership
before they ultimately walk on a deal,
but are still happy about it. And the
number I settled on was about 10%. Um,
pretty much every multi-stage tier one
VC firm um will do a seed deal at 10% if
if if they have to. If we push them down
to six or seven, it's just not worth it.
They'd rather wait for the series A. So
then we started leading financings more
consistently and you know we ended up
leading 14 companies in that first fund
and the first four deals I ever led two
had raised followon from benchmark one
had raised follow on from Sequoia one
had raised follow on from Andre so I had
a very positive feedback loop that the
deals that I was leading at seed were
not adverse selection and that gave me
more confidence to continue leading and
then the more time I spent just focused
on seed I just get a lot more confident
in my ability to pick seeds versus
versus relying on other people um as
proxy and Now we have a ton of data that
actually shows quite clearly that um the
deals that we have led as a venture
capital firm have actually dramatically
outperformed the deals in which we're
not the lead investor but we'
co-invested in. So nowadays we probably
lead like 80 or 90% of the companies in
our portfolio and I'd say the most we
actually we pulled the stat just
recently but we pulled the data on every
seed firm out there and we are the firm
that has the highest likelihood of
getting a follow-on series A by tier 1
BC firm. So the highest graduation rate
of any seed fund from seed to series A
to a tier one fund is us um by a pretty
large by a pretty wide margin. And that
was sort of what we started to focus on
was by the time we closed the first fund
um it became pretty apparent that I
accidentally built probably the most
well-worked LP base in Silicon Valley.
And I wanted to find a way to leverage
that for the benefit of our founders
because that's ultimately who our
primary customer is. Over time we really
started focusing on being the number one
venture capital firm to get a founder
from seed to series A. I'm curious how
you got the capital in the angelist days
to first do those deals, the 25k to 500k
deals. And I'm also curious about the
structure of the agreement to sell a
stake of your management company that
had the sunset provision in it. And I'm
asking about both of these because
there's there's always this cold start
problem with people that want to do what
you've done or want to run their own
investing firm or get going. Yeah. And
you solved two of you solved that with
these two ways. So detenture
capital firm with no money because I was
literally flat broke when I started
abstract. Um
>> you filed bankruptcy.
>> I literally had filed bankruptcy at 24
years old when my previous startup
company had failed. Um so I was
literally out of bankruptcy starting a
venture capital firm which it's funny
because at the time it was this
humiliating experience. I was like I put
everything I had into this one company.
Turned out to be the wrong category to
build a company in. I pulled the plug.
Thankfully, I got a job after that. Um,
so I was able to get back on my feet
somewhat quickly. Um, but no, I didn't
have, you know, the parents that I could
rely on for for seed cash to to start
being a venture capitalist. I didn't
have, you know, I I didn't go to, you
know, an Ivy League school where where
all of my friends parents were the guys
who ran every single one of these
venture capital firms. So I truly
believe that there is no excuse to
saying that you know there because I
think there is enough tools at least in
venture I can't speak to other asset
classes really democratized access to
capital and if you prove that you
deserve capital there is people in
Silicon Valley who will give that to you
and Angelus is the perfect platform for
that right like Angelist has capital on
their platform dedicated plat capital
and it's just if you find a deal we'll
put the money into it and I started
finding deals And I started bringing it
to the platform and they and the money
showed up. I was like, "This is real."
Like I I could bring a deal to the
platform. I could write a summary on the
company. I could write about the deal
dynamics. And then, you know, within 24
hours, they're like, "We raised $300,000
this deal. We raised 400." I remember
the first deal I put on Angel List. Um,
it's
>> kind of crazy when you
>> It's crazy. I was stunned the first time
this happened. The first deal I ever put
on Angel List. I I wrote the write up. I
put the syndicate up and then sent it to
Angelist. And then I refreshed it 4
hours later and there was $470,000
subscribed to the deal. And I was like,
"Holy shit." Like
>> what was that?
>> It was Ripple. Um, and like this is
incredible. Like I can't believe like
this actually works.
>> So the money came from the from Angela's
platform. You didn't you didn't know
>> I didn't source $1 of the capital on
that platform. Angela sourced every
penny of capital that came into those
deals. And once I realized it was real,
I just
>> went ham.
>> I went ham. I was I was looking for
deals. I I was just hunting for deals
all day long. Um,
>> and what are the economics split between
you and the platform in those deals?
>> Angel List, it's it's 0 and 20 for the
LPs. And then if if Angelist sources the
capital, which in my case they did in
every single deal, they get 5%. I get
15. So, it's actually a great deal.
>> It's incredibly it's a fantastic deal.
>> So, you get 0 15 on all those.
>> 0 and 15 on every single one of those
deals. I got so so excited and so jacked
up by this that I got so active that I
ended up um for a brief period of time,
I think for a six-month window, I was
one-third of all the volume on on
Angelist. Um and it was fantastic. What
the cool thing about it was when I had
stopped doing deals on Angel List and
decided to raise my fund, a bunch of the
the syndicate investors who were
actively supporting my L like what
happened? Your deals aren't on the
platform, but I'm starting a fund. And
those guys all became LPs as well. So it
not it even helped like you know
establish the platform for for me to
raise a fund with but then also you know
not every single founder in the world
wanted um SPVS um because you know
there's there's a public nature to that
uh and I still wanted to I I didn't want
to be limited by the ability to invest
in companies. So so at one point um
Lightseed invited me to be a scout for
them and you know I put half my scout
fund into the seed round at Ripling. So
that worked out well. I was working a
job at Core Innovation Capital at the
time and I had some money there and did
some angel checks and tandem to
everything. You could literally
bootstrap a venture capital firm out of
bankruptcy.
>> So then you sold 20% to this consortium
of the guys you mentioned earlier. How
did you do that? Like how did you know
how to price it?
>> That was one of the situations in life
where I was actually quite fortunate
where there was a lot of demand for what
I wanted to do. So, I was actually able
to set a price and I set a price that I
thought, you know, was fair. And at the
time, the price seemed high for me. In
retrospect, it seems low for them,
right? And I think those are the best
deals in the world where everyone's
happy. Like, I was happy to get the deal
up front and they're happy they made
that deal at the end.
>> What was the price?
>> Just shy of 50. I had some experience
with this because I mentioned I
mentioned I invested in the management
company of Polychain, right? And uh so I
learned a little bit about what a
management comp equity financing looks
like and and there were some learnings I
took away from that. But the one thing
that I really wanted was you know I
wanted to ultimately own my own company
and I thought that over time if I scaled
um having you know the the founders of
every single big platform fund owning an
equity piece of my management company is
probably not the best thing for me long
term. So uh so we had set a sunset on
that. I believe it's six or seven years.
The nature of it was basically they
invest because it sunsets they just got
some top of waterfall participation in
the first seven years of your economics
or something like that.
>> They get economics on everything I did
in that first seven years in perpetuity.
Got it.
>> Everything I do in seven years and one
day they're not entitled to economics.
>> Yeah. Got it. So it it effectively lasts
as long as you raise the fund in year
six. They get it for another 12 years.
>> A sevenyear timer in venture is nothing.
They get no carrier. Right. Right. So
most of the most of the excitement in
venture starts to happen in years 9 and
10. And then you used that capital to
finance the business and build a team.
>> Yeah, you know, we hired a team. We
built a really cool backend uh platform
from scratch. Um you know, we wanted to
be seen as a very serious institution
early in our funds life cycle. Um Alex,
my partner, has a much more traditional
background than I do. He's a Bridgewater
Colombia guy. So, uh very
processoriented, very analytical, very
data driven. And early on in our fund,
we basically built a CRM from ground up.
Um, which we're actually spinning out as
a company right now because every
venture capitalist I've shown it to has
been like, "Oh, if this is a product, we
would pay for it." So, uh, the guy who
built that for us, Will, is actually
spinning that out into a standalone
business. But there is a million ways
going back to this that to to bootstrap
your way into the venture capital world.
>> Okay. So now if I start to think about
more elements of the process here, 55
companies in the first fund, 47 in the
in the angelist days. Um, talk me
through the process of engaging with a
new company that's young and the sorts
of things that you're pattern matching
on or looking for and the things that
turn you off and cause you to not be
interested.
>> I've learned over time that investing in
founders for me works a lot better than
investing in markets. um I'm better at
identifying what a good founder is and
what a good market is. There is genetic
makeup that I look for in a founding
team of a company and whether it's you
know spread amongst one founder or
multiple founders. I'm looking for a
combination of very strong commercial
ability and very strong technical
ability. I'm not technical but Alex on
my team is technical. Andre is
technical. Will is technical. Uh and so
they're they're more suited to vet the
technical capabilities of an individual
than I would be. But when I mentioned
the commercial uh aspect, I'm really
looking for salesmanship in three
different verticals. Uh vertical one is
ability to fundra um which is seems
simple but building a startup company is
hard and anything you can do to put the
odds slightly in your favor just you
know makes your odds of success that
much more likely. There are certain
founders who are good at fundraising,
certain founders who are not good at
fundraising. The founders who are good
at fundraising get to build their
startup company that much more easy than
someone who's bad at fundraising. Um,
that's obviously somewhat sometimes
solve for because you could help with
that as an investor, but it's very
beneficial when a founder has like that
that salesmanship rigor. And the next
one is hiring. Um, hiring in early stage
startup companies is sales. 85% of the
companies we finance are based in the
Bay Area. Um, they need to hire
engineers who can easily get a job at
Meta or Google or OpenAI for $400,000 a
year. and the seedstage company is
trying to hire that person for $150,000
a year. It takes a very specific person
to convince somebody a $250,000 annual
pay cut is in that person's best
interest in exchange for equity in this
company that just has like a concept of
an idea. Um so that's really important
because recruiting is something that I
think a lot of people underestimate how
important is at the early stage uh
founding like the founding stages of
these companies. And then next is
selling a product. oftentimes V1 of
these products are like these half-ass
broken glitchy things that no one would
pay for, but these foundaries are able
to go out and find individuals who will
at least be a a design partner or a
pilot customer and give them a shot um
to build something because often times
it's not even in their best interest.
It's it's it's a time suck. They will
say come back to them and there's
actually a working product and
convincing somebody that it's actually
worth spending time with them to perfect
the product is also a specific type of
individual. Um, on the technical side,
you know, we're looking for someone with
extremely high strong technical
capability that other engineers would
actually work for. Um, some people are
great engineers that other engineers
might necessarily want to work for and
other people are great engineers or
maybe not maybe or just great engineers
that other engineers would happily work
for. Um, but what I look for on that
side is like shipping velocity. Like is
this the kind of engineer who's going to
ship a product in six weeks or six
months? And at the end of the day, I
think seedstage investing, at least for
us, is very momentum driven. I want to
build a portfolio of 60 high momentum
companies and you know hope that three
to five of them escape velocity and
become amazing companies. Another thing
that I've started to gravitate to over
time which is a little counterintuitive
to being a venture capitalist because
you want to own a lot of these companies
is I've found I've had a lot of success
with dilution sensitive founders. And
what I mean by dilution sensitive is is
you kind of meet like two buckets of
founders at the seed stage and you ask
them what kind of a round they want to
raise and they're like oh you know
typical you know 5 million 25 post round
you know down to sell 20 to 25% of my
company pretty standard and I'm like I
don't think there's anything standard is
selling 20 to 25% of your company to see
you don't have to sell 20 to 25% of your
company do you need $5 million and then
there's the other founder who comes in
and says I need $3 million and I want to
sell as little of my company as humanly
possible for that $3 million. And I
found that those founders um tend to
just be a little bit more high
conviction in what they're building. And
they tend to believe that every percent
of equity they give away is 1% of equity
they'll never get back. And that's
incredibly powerful because more so than
you know negotiating with investors,
which is great, they tend to maintain
the highest bar of talent that they hire
because they think about equity the same
way whether it's going to an investor,
whether it's going to an employee. and
they want to make sure everybody they
hire is worth every ounce of equity they
get. Those founders also tend to be the
ones that aren't wasteful with their
equity. You know, if someone's not
working out, they're going to fire them
before their 12-month cliff. So that
there's not dead weight equity with, you
know, 30 to 40 people that no longer
work at the company, which is also
really great from an IR perspective in
your investment because it makes it such
that the option will refresh in the next
round is not as big as it would have
been if they just loosey goosey gave
away a lot of equity. Um, but I will say
those founders who are the delusion
sensitive ones in my portfolio that have
the highest bar for the talent they
hire, the companies in my portfolio
where where where all of those things
ring true and the companies are doing
quite well, people are always shocked at
how small the teams of those companies
are relative to the scale of what
they've achieved. Um, so I truly do
believe um, you know, incredibly high
quality talent has like an has like a
multiplier effect on company efficiency.
>> How fast do you work your way through
one of these? like how much time
measured in hours or or time or whatever
do you spend with the founding team
before making an investment? Typically
>> it varies but you know it's typically
you know somewhere between three to four
sometimes five meetings and then doing a
lot of back channel work in between
those meetings. Um sometimes you have
the time to do that other times you
don't. Having said that the way our firm
is set up um we have a we have standing
meetings multiple times a day. Um, so
our whole firm is designed around speed.
Um, and we've built our model around
being able to do what might take another
venture capital firm two to three weeks,
we can do in, you know, two to three
days.
>> Okay. So, talk through that. I want to
hear like the cadence of a week at
Abstract. Like if I just walked through
the office halls for a week, what I
would say,
>> tons of pitch meetings. That is what I
think our time is best spent doing pitch
meetings and then helping our existing
portfolio.
>> Founders pitching you.
>> Founders pitching us. I always tell
people it's not a flex to get a meeting
with me because I pretty much don't say
no to meetings. Um, but I probably take
anywhere between
>> 18 to 30 pitches per week.
>> Wow.
>> Um, and it goes back to the the Michael
phrase of frame of reference. Um,
>> the more companies you meet, the easier
it is to spot the people that truly
stand out. Um, obviously you miss things
over time, but I think you
>> it's hard to know what great looks like
without seeing a lot of things. And I
also find that the VCs I who I believe
are the most successful VCs and have had
the most, you know, storied careers tend
to be the people that take every single
introduction I send them. And then the
VCs who are still building their careers
and I send them deals are like, "Oh, you
know, I'm a little swamp for bandwidth
right now." I'm like, "All right, that
guy's not going to make it." Um, it's
pretty obvious who really wants to meet
Ruof at Sequoa. I think you heard this
line from from Doug Leone. I think when
I first met Rulof, he told me in order
to be successful in venture capital, you
have to have Dumbo ears, which means you
have to hear everything or see
everything. Um, and I saw Neil's podcast
here yesterday where he was talking
about how they don't care about
coverage. I think that could be true at
growth stage. I think at seed stage,
coverage is absolutely key because there
is no market map of everything that
exists. Most of these companies don't
even have websites yet. There is nothing
to exist. So, you really just need to
have your tentacles everywhere um to get
as many companies as possible surfaced
up to you. And there is so little that
exists about these companies that there
is very little work you can do to
qualify or disqualify in advance. So you
really just need to spend time with
them.
>> What are the standing meetings that you
have with your team, the internal ones?
>> Oh, it's literally we we have a
30-minute meeting at least once a day to
just catch up on every company people
have met with that day because we met we
meet with so many companies
>> that it's very easy to forget what was
interesting. So like on a daily basis,
we're kind of just syncing up has
anybody met anything that other people
on the team should meet. In the meetings
themselves, do you have favorite
questions that you find yourself
returning to again and again to ask
founders?
>> I the number one thing that I look to
from founders is like sign of like prove
to me that you're exceptional. Um, and
what I mean by that is like if you look
at the most successful impressive
founders out there like they tend to
have been impressive not maybe not
successful but impressive people prior
to starting that company. they had a
history of doing special and impressive
things and there was this famous
question on Quora once upon a time that
um somebody asked and said is it true
that nobody's ever started a successful
company after 35 years old because in
Silicon Valley everyone's like all the
power law companies are founded by by by
younger individuals which has some truth
and and also doesn't and the people who
answered that question were like Reed
Hoffman he's like I founded LinkedIn
when I was over 35 and and Mark Beni off
he's like I founded Salesforce when I
was over 35 and uh Reed Hastings. Like I
founded Netflix when I was over 35. And
every single one of those people were
very successful by the time they had
started those companies. Um so it's hard
for me to believe if I meet somebody
that if I can't get a sense that this
person is special or has been special or
has done impressive things in their life
that the first impressive thing they're
ever going to do is this company that
they're asking me to invest in.
>> So do you literally ask them like tell
me the most impressive things you've
done?
>> I ask about what are entrepreneurial
things you've done. Um what are like
like tell me your story right like if
there is something impressive in their
story they will make sure it stands out
right and you know sometimes the the
special thing is you know they got into
the school of their dreams so did
everybody else that went to that school
right so like something that's truly
different um that I'm I'm looking for
and then you know resilience is key um
that's a little harder to discern
especially with the age of founders that
I back not everybody's had a situation
where they've had to deal with with with
hardship to determine that to develop
that resilience But you know, some of
the founders in our portfolio that have
done pivot after pivot after pivot um
have survived for years and then
ultimately started a company that had
nothing to do with their first company
ended up being very very successful. Now
I'm not saying that that every founder
should stick with every single company
over a certain period of time. Like
there's founders who should absolutely
stop working on a company and either
return cash or find a soft landing or
something and move on. Um but there are
other founders who will just do these
non-local pivots. I think the local
pivot is is what kills companies. And an
example of this, we invested in a
company called Paparazzi. Do you
remember that one?
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. So, we had seated them when it was
TTY. And then TTY pop pivoted five or
six times until it turned into
Paparazzi. And then Paparazzi launched.
I think it was the first consumer social
application ever to debut at number one
on the app store. And by the end of that
day, they had three term sheets from
three tier one VC firms and they signed
a term sheet with Benchmark. And then
within six weeks, it became very obvious
that there was no retention. The growth
was there, but the retention wasn't
there. and he just returned cash. He
didn't He had all this money from
benchmark. Nobody was telling to shut
the company down. But he was like, "I've
only been thinking about consumer social
for the last three years. And if I know
if I pivot again, it's going to be
another consumer social idea because
it's all my brain is wired to do right
now. So, I need to shut this company
down. I need to return cash. And I need
to just go back to the drawing board.
And if and when I come up with another
company, I'm going to come back to with
a seed round so I don't have this, you
know, series A valuation hanging over my
head." Um, and then there's other
founders who have, you know, just
churned their entire team, maybe even
half their founders, but they maintained
the balance sheet and they and they went
to like skeleton crew mode until they
figured out things that had nothing to
do with their first version of their
business. Clay is a really good example
of that.
>> I think we we wrote a small check in to
the seed round of Clay, I think like
eight years ago. Um,
>> and then I think they hard pivoted two
years ago into what Clay ultimately is.
Vappy is a company in our portfolio that
was originally called Superpowered.
They're going to um they're doing very
very well. They they they've they
they've scaled from zero to double digit
millions. They have ARR within 14 months
of launch, but that was four years after
I seated them and seven pivots later. Um
Craya is another example of of multiple
pivots until like they finally caught
fire with the latest version of their
product. Craya was originally called
Genverse. So, do you care at the
beginning? You told me a line about art
one time, something like all good art is
ugly or something like that. Um, do you
care much about the idea or are you
really really really just focused on the
attributes of the founder?
>> The idea needs to be thematically
interesting to me and not an overly
saturated market that shows some sign of
novel thinking. Um, what I mean by that
is like there is this weird phenomenon
in Silicon Valley that every time a tier
one fund or maybe two tier one funds
finance a company in a category in the
next three months I'll get pitched 15
companies doing the exact same thing.
and it's very hard to discern whether
that person truly wants to build a
company in that category or whether that
person just wants to be a venturebacked
founder and they know that there is
capital available for this category
right now. So oftent times I'm looking
for signs of novel thinking. So it's
either it needs to be one of the first,
you know, one or two times I've heard
this company pitched to me before or
it's getting pitched to me with a
completely brand new perspective. Um a
perspective that I haven't heard before
that I think means that this person
actually truly thought about what they
were trying to build. And when I go back
to like the idea specific idea is less
important to me. It's more about the
founders's understanding of the idea.
It's very easy to understand how
thoughtful someone has been about
anything just by questioning them. There
are certain founders you ask questions
to and their questions lack depth and
their questions l their answers lack
depth. Their answer their answers lack
substance and you end up in these
situations where I'm like even when I
ask you the question, the answer still
isn't a real answer. I don't actually
feel like you even know the answer. And
then there's the other founder who'll
ask a question and they can give you a
15-minute long answer to to every
question you ask. And it's like no, this
person is clearly like he's either been
asked this question five times before,
he's asked himself this question 10
times already and thought about every
angle to it. Not saying that that's
absolutely necessary, but at least it
shows to me that they've actually like
came to this with like a first
principles mindset and they truly have
thought a lot about building this
specific company. I do also not like,
you know, at the end of the day, I do
try to look, you know, 18 months in the
future if this company does well, how
many how many investors do I personally
know that'll be interested in leading a
follow- on round of financing for this
company? If it's a company that, you
know, three tier one funds have already
led a series A or series B financing in,
most of their tier one funds are going
to be more interested in falling onto
one of those companies than the new
company. So then there's certain times
where maybe it's a mistake where I just
believe a category is too saturated and
the odds of success are not like the
riskreward ratio isn't quite there.
>> Okay. So now we get through you like it,
you like a company. How do you think
about the pricing for a round that you
will tolerate? Like there's some degree
to which you you you know you're you're
a price taker. Like there's market
prices for these things and that those
eb and flow. Are you just basically a
price taker or do you have limits to
what you'll do? If there's multi-stage
funds around the table, the deal will
get done no lower than 25 and it'll
probably get done no higher than 50. If
it gets done higher than 50, it means
one multi-stage got really excited and
just turned it straight into a series A,
at which point it's not really a fit for
me anymore. And that does happen. Um,
and then the 50 is something I actually
need to take into consideration because
every venture capital firm has a
portfolio construction model, right? And
my portfolio construction model says
that I want to own 8 to 10% of 60
companies at seed. And I want to
maintain that 10% ownership and the best
10 of those companies through series B.
Now I have assumptions for what my entry
valuation needs to be into these
companies. You know, it used to be I
want to maintain an average entry
valuation of sub20 million. That's
become impossible. I used to be able to
do that, but I know could no longer
maintain an average entry valuation of
sub20 million. But if I'm doing it,
maybe my average entry valuation today I
want to maintain is sub 30 million. That
means sometimes I'll do a deal at 15
post because I found a deal that was off
the beaten path and it's a preede. Maybe
I took an early bet on people. Some I'll
do a deal at 50 post. But if I can
maintain an average entry valuation of
sub 30, it'll be nice. But if you start
doing too many deals that are north of
your 30, you start messing up your
portfolio construction model because the
more deals you do over 30, the less
number of shots you have on goal, right?
Because if my goal is to have 60
companies per fund and suddenly my my
entry valuation starts to deviate from
what I modeled in my portfolio
construction model, then I start need to
consider myself like is investing in
this company worth losing one shot on
goal out of this fund. And that's kind
of when you need to start thinking about
price a little bit more discerningly.
Um, and sometimes the answer is yes. I'm
just like, I want to invest in this
company. This company needs to be in the
fund. um you kind of need to convince
yourself that you like it twice as much
as as another company in your fund
because you're you're basically shooting
two bullets on on one deal. But once
we've decided to invest in a company and
price tends to be not something that
dissuades us from investing in that
company until it gets so egregious that
you can no longer call it a seed deal.
Um but that's basically our point of
view. Obviously we try to get you know
we try to get it to fit within the
confines of our portfolio construction
model but oftent times you know you have
to deviate from that to get the company
into your portfolio because ultimately
like venture is an outliers business and
you have no idea if the deal that you
passed on due to price will be the
outliers. So you kind of just have to
swallow the bullet sometimes.
>> Now we come to winning. So you have to
convince the founders take your money
and not other people's. Yeah. And I love
this idea that the pitch you give to
founders that's increasingly proven true
is that by taking your money, they're
effectively getting a fantastic
fundraising partner for the future and
that you are like you and Abstract are
lowering their future cost of capital.
>> Um so talk us through that pitch that
you give and and then how you execute
against it.
>> Competing for deals is very challenging.
Um, I think it is an incredibly
time-consuming process and for us
competing is a very laborintensive
process because as you know prior to
doing this podcast there's like nothing
publicly available about me on the
internet period. So pretty much all of
the selling I need to do is explaining
to the founder who we are, what we do
and having, you know, seven or eight of
my other founders and calling them and
explaining the benefits of working with
us and saying that if they were to start
a company again, they would absolutely
come back to us for our seed round. So,
um, when we do decide to win a deal, we
really do go all in in terms of how much
we're putting behind to make the case
for the founder that we are their best
seed partner, period. Um, in addition to
fundraising, obviously, we we have a
full platform team now, like anybody
else would expect from a large seed fund
that we have today. Uh, we have an
incredible head of we have an incredible
head of GTM, we have an incredible head
of comms, we have an incredible head of
of uh talent. Um, so we can help with
all of those things, but what we really
wanted to do is is be exceptional at one
particular thing or at least what I
wanted to focus on. And I think
everybody in our team specializes in
their own specific things, but the one
process that I thought was broken in in
in venture ecosystem was the fundraising
process when I first got into this. And
you're an investor, so you've you've
seen these spreadsheets before. When a
founder wants to fund raise, they put
together a Google doc and they share
that Google doc with all of their
investors. And on that Google doc on the
lefth hand column, it's a list of every
single venture capital firm they want to
talk to. And then they ask all of their
investors to go through that list and
say, "Please mark whether or not you
have a relationship with one of these
venture capital firms, how senior your
relationship is, and how close you are
with that individual." And then the
founder will go through that list at the
end and ask nine of his investors for
intros to 30 different venture
capitalists, and they'll kick off their
process. The reason I thought that was
bad was there's too many people involved
in the fundraising process and there's
too many potentially misaligned
incentives, right? This potential
investor might have a really close
relationship with this VC. They might be
trying to do their buddy a favor by
helping him win a deal. Too many people
work at these venture capital firms and
that's too many young people telling
their friends about who this fund is
talking to, who's passing, who's not
passing, you know, what the valuations
are coming in. And VCs are just trying
to gather information as much as they
possibly can. And when you when you sort
of choke off that information, then
they're focused then they're forced to
really just like do their own work and
truly build conviction in a company. Um,
and they tend to work faster this way.
Um, so after I closed my fund, as I
mentioned all the LPs we had, it became
pretty apparent to me that I became like
the person in Silicon Valley that had
the direct line to the most senior GPS
at every single one of these venture
capital firms. So in the early days, I
got some of my founders to trust me and
I'd say, "Listen, let's not bring
anybody else in the fundraising process.
like I will be the sole node. I'll help
you with the deck. I'll help you with
the data room. Let's do a few mock
pitches with people on my team. I will
make introductions to every single top
GP that's the relevant partner at every
single one of these venture capital
firms for your company. We'll line up
all of these meetings over a 3-day
window next week. And at the end of
every single day, I will check in with
all of them and I will get feedback and
I'll find out what you're what's
resonating, what's not resonating, and
who's truly interested versus who's not
interested. And and we'll keep the
process going. We'll keep it tight.
we'll keep it efficient and we won't
have any information leaks and then
we'll try to get you the best deal
possible. But ultimately with the best
deal possible is like what I ultimately
try to do is get as much leverage for my
founders as possible. Um leverage comes
in the form of term sheets. The more
term sheets they have, the more
negotiating power they have. Um
everybody wants negotiating power and
making a good deal for themselves and
for their company and for their existing
shareholders.
So when you don't have leverage, you
will sell 25% of your company at series
A to whoever gives you the terms that
you want to work with. When you do have
leverage, you can get that down
dramatically. And what I thought could
be the number one value additive thing
that I could do for my companies is make
sure that by the time they exit, they
own more of their company than they
would have had I not been on the cap
table. And now we have data that not
only do we have the highest graduation
rate from seed to series A, we're also
have the the highest decile of average
valuation of series A and the lowest
average dilution in the series A. So we
can basically make your company have way
better access to lowerc cost capital in
the future from the highest quality
partners. And I had one of my founders
do a reference with another founder
saying that the likelihood that you own
10% more of your company at exit is 10x
higher with abstract on your cable on
your cap table than not because if I can
save you 5% at the A and 3% at the B and
2% at the C um these things tend to add
up nicely and you know if you end up
exiting your company for $2 billion and
you can end up with an extra $200
million in your pocket. I can't
personally think of a singer a single
value ad that a venture capital brings
to the table that translates to more
than an extra $200 million in your
pocket.
>> Having done so many of these where
you're helping a founder uh rate let's
let's focus on series A to start because
that's what follows what you do. What
have you learned about running these
processes? Well, and I'm interested in
like very nitty-gritty detail of like
what time of night to call the you know
VC or something to get the feedback or
how to solicit true feedback that's not
like whitewashed or something. I think
I've been doing it for long enough that
I have very trusted parties.
>> They'll just tell you
>> at every venture capital. They'll just
tell me.
>> But how did that start?
>> In the early days, it was really just a
lot of like who is this kid? Why is he
running these processes? Why are these
people trusting him to run this fund
raise? Like why why is he kind of the
gatekeeper for this round? Over time, it
just kind of became accepted that I was
that person. And I think the the
definitive thing that made it proven
that it's that I'm the accepted party to
do that, whether it's at the A or the B
or the C, is I think we've proven to do
such a service for founders when we're
running these processes for them that
even in deals where our co-lead is a
multi-stage tier one bigname platform
fund. When that next round is coming,
they will tell the founder, "We're more
than happy to let Romon/abstract run
this process because they'll do a better
job at it than anybody else will." Um,
so I think once we got the validation
from our co-investors that they think we
would do a better job running this than
they would, then I think it just kind of
became like accepted that for our
portfolio companies is the way it's
going to be.
>> So you're you're sort of sabes now for
for this process.
>> Yeah, that's a fair way to describe it.
>> Um, what have you learned about the
dynamics of who tends to win at series A
when they want to?
>> There's different types of ways rounds
come together, right? There is the
typical process where the founder puts
together a deck in a data room and lines
up meetings of every single venture
capital firm and they go out and they
pitch. Um and then there is deals that
happen with outside of that dynamic,
right? That we have less involvement in.
Um oftent times, you know, we help our
foundaries build relationships with
certain VCs in in advance of the series
A process because that's actually a good
way that we get information on what
those people would want to like what
should be this company's northstar
metrics. How should we know when this
company will be ready to raise a series
A? And often times one of those people
will just come in and preemptively make
the founder an offer and the founder,
you know, likes this partner, the terms
are fair and they don't want to spend,
you know, the next 3 to four weeks of
their life fundraising and and they call
it a day and they move forward. I think
certain VCs are very very good at doing
that. Um, but in like the bakeoff
process when there's, you know, 15, 18,
20 firms around the table,
very few companies end up getting more
than three or four term sheets. Um
there's a few companies that get, you
know, seven, eight or nine term sheets.
The firms who I think truly excel in
winning hyper competitive series A
rounds um that I've seen from my
experience over and over again tend to
be Sequoia Benchmark and Anderson. um
even to this day and and some somebody
pulled out a stat and shared it on
LinkedIn the other day that I looked at
that showed um the number the VC firms
that have the highest number of unicorns
that they have led financings in prior
to them becoming unicorns since 2015 and
first place was Andrea and second place
was Sequoia which validates this truth
already and then like fifth place was
Benchmark which is kind of shocking when
you consider how much smaller their
funds is and how funds are and how
targeted they have to with with the
checks that they write. Um, but
typically when one of those three firms
extends an offer to a company, they tend
to win unless they're competing with one
of the two other ones and then they tend
to only lose to one of the other two.
If you eliminate those firms, then it's
kind of like a free-for-all, and there
are certain people who are more
qualified to win certain deals than
other deals. If you eliminate the
dynamic, there's plenty of companies
that could have absolutely raised a
series A from one of those firms that
somebody else ends up winning, but they
preempt the deal and they just are very
good at sniping deals. And um and I
think those three individual firms have
built brand weight that's so strong that
founders really just want to be
affiliated with them. And there are
certain partners at those firms that
have such amazing reputations as board
directors that a series A is the first
time you're giving up a board director
seat. Not to say there aren't phenomenal
board directors at a multi a bunch of
firms because there really are. But the
density of high-quality board members
that have storied reputations of being
great board members at those three
particular firms I think outweighs the
number of high-quality board members
that exist at pretty much any other
venture capital firm. Um, and founders,
the advice they get from their seed
investor is in addition to optimizing
for, you know, a good deal for yourself
at the series A, you really should be
optimizing for who's going to be the
best board director to have on this
journey with you for the next 10 years.
Um, and you know, the early days Andre
who who were the founding partners,
every single one of them were operators
who had sold companies for hundreds of
millions of dollars, right? It was hard
to compete with. This guy's going to be
on your company who knows exactly what
it takes to build a successful outcome
in venture capital. And then the
benchmark and coil alternative. They
have some individuals like that, but
they also have individuals who have been
on the boards of the most successful
successful most incredible outcomes in
Silicon Valley history. So they have a
much better sense of what exceptional
looks like more so than mo more so than
other people. They know things that work
and they know things that don't work.
Um, and there's great board members at
every venture capital firm and they're
all very public. You know who they all
are. Um, and there's a lot of people at
those venture capital firms that don't
have those experiences, that haven't
sold a company and haven't yet been
affiliated with a great company. And
those guys will do great and some of
them will join boards and become one of
those people individually. But when a
founder is choosing, they're more likely
to choose the person with that
experience and the person without. If
you take a snapshot today of abstract
and you had to go out and gather
feedback from like everyone that engages
with the firm, founders, LPs, other
venture investors, other random people
and you bucketed all that feedback into
like uh a spectrum. What would the most
complimentary people say and what would
the most critical people say do you
think?
>> Sure. Um, I would say the most
complimentary people would say
that we become one of the leading seed
firms in Silicon Valley in a relatively
short period of time. Um, that we have a
great reputation among our founders.
We're routinely referred to as the most
trusted investor on the cap table of our
portfolio companies. I think a lot of
the multi-stage firms would consider us
their most trusted seedstage venture
capital firm partner. Um, and I think
some would say that we've achieved a lot
more success than other people have that
have started a venture capital firm in
the same time duration that we have. I'd
say the people that would say critical
things, uh, would probably say that
we're like heat seekers, uh, signal
chasers, um, which wouldn't have been
inaccurate if you said that six or seven
years ago because a lot of the model was
aligned was around how do I get into
deals alongside those firms, which
candidly I had to because I wouldn't be
able to raise SPVS otherwise, right?
like that's why I got that's why the
LPVS raised the raised the money they
did right that was my go to market
strategy um but over time I think we
became the signal um but I think people
still tend to hold on to old narratives
so I could totally see that being the
case
>> and then you know in the earlier days we
were high volume we're not anymore as a
firm I think we invest you know 14 net
new seed deals per year which is you
know a little over one deal per month um
so I don't think we're high volume today
by any means but as again people tend to
stick to old narratives and people will
say that we're high volume and they're
all call options which I just would say
is not true. I can't help but think
about all the different art world
analogies that you've built very quickly
uh one of these talent spotter you know
up and cominging galleries and so of
course it demands the question when and
if you'll become Gigosian
u I think Agoian has a really cool story
he was a total outsider with no relevant
pedigree and he
was kind of just dismissed um his you
know first few years or first decade
until he ultimately became the leading
guy in the category. Now I'm far far far
away from that. Uh and I think Silicon
Valley is a more friendly place than the
art world. Silicon Valley has been nicer
to me than maybe the art world was to to
Larry Gigosian in the early days. So I
don't want to draw the direct analogy,
but um I think the main thing is just
staying consistent and maintaining the
reputation and building upon that
reputation and then producing great
results. Venture is the only asset class
where historical results is somewhat
indicative of future performance
>> and
you can actually somewhat forecast how a
venture capital firm will do over time
based on how they've done historically.
So I do believe if we just stay
consistent, we have a pretty long
trajectory and a long career ahead of
us. Like I'm 34 today. I started this
when I was 26. I think I have at least
20 years left in me to keep doing this.
And I think you know you could build
quite a brand and quite a platform in
that time frame.
>> What feels missing from the core machine
today? You mentioned speed being an
objective function that you optimize
around a lot. What if if you could just
snap your fingers and improve some
aspect of the abstract platform would
you would you improve or change?
>> It would be brand. Um I think brand
would trump the the would trump anything
else that the that the machine doesn't
have today primarily because when a
founder comes referred to us by an
existing portfolio company, most of the
work is done for us. You're not going to
find much about these guys online, but
they've been phenomenal partners to me.
They've opened doors for me. They
knocked it out of the park on our fund
raise. They they brought together the
most solid angels um for to to fill out
our cap table, and he's always available
when I need him for anything. If we
don't have that and we're cold reaching
out to founders, the the it's much more
of an uphill battle to convince them
like why we should be in the same
conversation of all of the other venture
capital firms they're talking to whose
names they've heard of before. Um, which
is why I mentioned that winning deals
for us is a very manual process. Um,
other firms just get to win because of
their brand. I don't have to spend the
the the manh hours that I have to and
call in all the favors that I have to to
win the deal. So, part of the reason I'm
doing this.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> coming out of obscurity.
>> Exactly. Um, but I think that's really
that's really the missing link. And you
know, there's other people that work at
the firm and you'd mentioned this
earlier where
my name is you hear it more often than
abstract. And I really do want the firm
to be abstract. And I think that'll be
beneficial because scaling a platform,
scaling a team helps when everybody at
the team can do things. When everybody
at the team can go out and compete, win
and support their own portfolio
companies. And if there is a brand
weight that they can all leverage to
compete, that allows them to all be, you
know, have more level playing field and
doing their jobs. say more about that
tendency for individuals to have more of
a quote unquote brand these days as
investors than firms. another VC that
explained this to me once and I asked
him how he identified who to hire for
his venture capital firm and he said he
tends to optimize for people who either
already have personal brands or have the
ability to build a personal brand and
very good venture capital firm, strong
brand but um he was the one who actually
explained to me uh Sequoia Benchmark and
Andre have incredibly strong brands
such that you know if you're a less
well-known individual partner at Sequoia
or a less well-known individual partner
at Andre, you can still compete and win
some of the most competitive deals in
Silicon Valley because of the brand that
you're affiliated with. And he said,
"Now, the amount of time and resources
it takes to build a brand that can
compete with those firms on brand is is
counterproductive to what it takes to be
a great venture capitalist. Um, but
building a personal brand is something
you do in tandem to being a great
venture capitalist. and the personal
brand and I asked him to explain I was
like elaborate what personal brand
versus venture brand he goes well I hear
the name Romton multiple times a week I
hear the name abstract once a month
that's the difference between personal
brand and and venture capital firm brand
and he goes people know who you are
foundaries know who you are VCs know who
you are you have a reputation there's
companies that people associate with you
there is skill sets that you have that
people associate with you um and people
who have personal brands at venture
capital firms tend to be able to compete
for competitive financing rounds. And if
you look at every venture capital firm,
excluding those top three, and even in
those top three, this tends to be true
more often than not for the most
competitive deals. But when those firms
are competing for a hyperco competitive
financing, it tends to be the same one,
two, or three partners who tends to do
most of the selling and closing for
those deals to bring those deals home.
And very few venture capital firms have
more than one, two, and at the most
three individuals that can independently
go out and source and compete and close
financings in the most competitive
deals. Which is why venture is hard to
scale as an asset class. Which is why a
lot of LPs look at these large platform
funds and say, "If I could just invest
in these four GPS, that'd be way more
appealing than investing in 16 of them
and having to have exposure to the other
12 when I really just want exposure to
these four." Um,
>> again it's like the art thing with the
paintings where you got to buy the
>> Yeah, exactly. You got you got to
support the program. Um, so, so yeah,
there's tons of analogies. I do think
there are certain individuals that you
meet that tend to be charismatic,
trustworthy, have good judgment, and
will will have an ability that given
enough time and opportunity, they can
build a very good reputation, a personal
brand for themselves as well.
>> Do you think this whole ecosystem is in
a healthy place?
>> Yes and no. You know, people argue that
these AI companies are raising at
astronomically high valuations. And I
actually don't know if that's true. And
I don't think anybody will know if it's
true for another three or four years
because while the multiples seem insane,
the companies are also growing at
unprecedented rates. So historically,
you could look at a SAS company and say,
well, if it's growing 3x, 4x
year-over-year, and you could project a
5x over the next two years, you can
justify paying, you know, this price
today.
With AI companies, it's this company
grew 20x year-over-year last year. It's
on track to grow 15x year over year this
year. Maybe it grows 10x year over year
next year. Like what kind of what is the
fair multiple to assign to that deal?
It's kind of hard to determine what the
correct answer to that is. But there's
also way less predictability in its
potential growth, right? Because there's
no shortage of application layer
companies that become obsolete overnight
when it becomes a new feature of one of
the foundation model companies. So a
company can could have grown 20x last
year and 10x this year that shrinks next
year. I think at the end of the day with
B with venture, you're trying to capture
outliers. So if the companies are
shaping up to be the next power law
companies of the future, you'll do
whatever it takes to get into one of
those companies. So for the follow-on
rounds, I will say that I don't think
it's in a bad place because these are
truly incredible companies growing at
truly unprecedented rates and achieving
adoption that no one ever thought was
possible. So they're clearly have
unbelievable signs of product market fit
very early in their life cycle. Um so
that's the side that I wouldn't say is
is healthy or unhealthy. I'd say it's
undetermined. I'd say it's good for the
asset class overall. If you're investing
in companies that are growing this fast,
LPS will ultimately do well. Will they
do as well if they would have if these
companies were invested at half the
price and double the ownership? Sure.
But markets get efficient over time. And
I think venture as an asset class is
getting efficient and efficiency, you
know, brings returns back to the mean
and then you're starting to invest in
managers that you think could find alpha
in one way or another. The part of the
ecosystem that seems unhealthy to me uh
and is very reminiscent of 2021 uh is
the timeline from graduation from seed
to A, A to B, B to C. In the last six
months, I think I funded seven companies
that have already raised series A
rounds. um within weeks of me leading
their seed financings and at a four to
5x multiple at which I financed the
company at just a few weeks prior and
not a whole lot
>> of like fundamental business
>> fundamental business progress in that
time frame and that hasn't happened
since 2021. Um in 2021 I was funding
companies and within a couple months the
series A got done and that is very
actively happening again. And I'm
funding companies that are raising A's
within a couple months and then B's
within a couple months after that. And
if you look at the company relative to
what I invested in versus what the
company is today, they're basically just
paying 10 times the price for the same
exact company I invested in a couple
months or four months ago, you know,
plus or minus a few hires um and maybe
some and maybe some design partners. So
I do see I do think the industry is
getting a little like drunk on drunk on
IR. And the same thing that happened in
2021 is happening again. And in the
terms of like my latest funds are
getting into J-Curve territory, are
coming out of JC curve way too quickly.
Um I think in venture your IR should be
back like should be like backed
>> rising. Correct.
>> Exactly. Right. And in in the 2021
vintage in the latest vintage like our
funds are getting to 30 to 40% IRR
within the first few initial months of
initial deployment which you know just
shouldn't be the case. There should be
negative IR for like at least during the
deployment period, right? The velocity
at which companies are raising follow on
funding is a little is a little jarring.
>> If I rewind back to prior to age 26 and
think about the rest of your life, what
are the things that have happened to you
that have most made you who and how you
are?
>> I had a very I mean non-traditional by
Silicon Valley standards uh childhood.
My parents uh are Iranian immigrants. Um
my dad immigrated pre-revolution, my mom
postrevolution. Um I have an older
brother. He's 5 years older than I am.
And we grew up in Los Angeles and just
outside of Calabasas. My parents are
small business owners when I lived in
LA. My father owned a couple of
restaurants, a couple dry cleaners, and
my mom was in school to be a dental
hygienist. And when we moved to the Bay
Area, cuz that's where my mom had a
sister and she wanted to be closer to
family. I was probably about 12 or 13
years old. My dad, I mean, he he's an
immigrant coming from another country.
So, and they're they're all financially
motivated. And he kind of in an early
stage instilled in me that like America
revolves around money. And you know, you
need to figure out a way to make it. I
heard it a little a little too often as
as as a kid. And you know, one of the
things that I could point to when I was
younger uh was the stock market. For
whatever reason, my dad always had CNBC
on in the mornings before school started
and always saw in the background. And
when I was 13 years old, um he was kind
enough to to lend me $2,000, him and my
mom. And I wanted to teach myself to
trade stocks. And I quickly learned that
$2,000 was not enough money to trade
stocks. And I wanted to learn to trade
derivatives instead. I learned that the
the multiple potential derivatives was
order of magnitudes, what what what you
get in the stock market. I did that
throughout my my duration high school.
And then I also had a couple cool high
school jobs. Uh I only had two real jobs
in my life. Job number one was uh when I
was 14 years old, I sheld books at the
local library. And then job number two
uh was I worked at Westelm uh the
furniture store. Um which is actually my
wife's favorite story about like my my
upbringing because of the way I did
sales.
>> Tell us how'd you do it.
>> Um
at Westm I had this job when I was 16
and 17 years old and I used it to
finance a side hustle which I'll tell
you about in a second. But everybody in
West has a corner of the store and every
corner is a is its own version of a of a
style of an apartment that you can have.
>> Okay.
>> And I work there on the weekends and I
always kept an eye out for people that
came uh to Marin from the city with zip
cars. So they rented a car clearly to to
take some furniture home. So I always
spotted the people who rented a car cuz
I knew they were there for a mission.
And when they came in um Westm wasn't
commission based, it was incentive
based. So you didn't get a percentage of
your sales, you got um a progressive
bonus. based on the size of a sale. So,
you were you were incentivized to upsell
people and you know, if a if a sale was
$500, you got a $10 incentive. If a sale
was $1,500, you got like $150 incentive.
So, like the the the
graduated exponentially. So, somebody
would come in and they would want to buy
a sectional and they were ready to take
it home. And staging is everything in
those stores. So, I'd be like, "Do you
guys want to take home the pillows? Do
you want to take home the coffee table?
What about the rug?" They're like, "No,
no, no. We just want the sectional." And
I would take everything off of it just
to show them what it would look like
when it when when it got home. And then
um I would constantly encourage them to
take it because they would be very
unhappy with the way it looked when it
came home. And there was nothing no harm
in returning it because unlike
commissions uh incentives were not
rolled back uh when when things were
returned. So
I did focus on that. And while some had
a lot of very low uh sectionals and and
sofas and I would ask them if they have
a coffee table at home. I'm like yeah
I'm like is it a low coffee table? They
said, "No." I'm like, "Well, have you
ever seen a coffee table that's higher
than than a than a than a sectional?
Like, you need to prop your legs upward.
It's not going to look good. It's not
going to be comfortable. You should take
this coffee table also." And so I ended
up having like the highest average
ticket sales westm just the hourly rate
was nothing compared to what you got on
those incentives. Um, so I really just
focused on on upsizing those sales. Um,
but then half a summer and half a school
year, I actually opted to go to the
stock room because I was able to get
more work done in the stock room because
you weren't on the floor all day long.
And that's when I actually like got an
appreciation for hard labor because as I
mentioned, West Elm was like one of
those uh stores that stocks everything.
So they had a deal with UPS. Every
morning UPS would pull up a truck and
the stock guys would unload it and put
it in there and that's just how they
made the inventory. And I remember this
is probably like the single hardest day
of physical work I had in my life where
our manager said, "Tomorrow we have four
trucks." So we staffed six uh stock guys
to unload these four trucks. it's going
to take half the day and uh we're going
to call it a day. And and the guys at
UPS, they didn't actually unload. The
deal was just to drop the trucks off and
then they would pick it up when they
were empty. And everybody showed up that
next day and everybody called in sick
except for me. And I had to
single-handedly unload four UPS trucks
worth of furniture. And I I started at
7:30 in the morning and I think I was
there till 7:30 at night. And for
whatever reason, I ended the day very
proud of myself, even though I don't
know if I should have, but um I really
appreciated like what hard work was.
Well, I do think there's a concept of
working hard and smart. I do think you
have to do both. And I think hard work
is just something that was always
instilled in me an early age. And I
think founders work hard. I think you
have to build hard to build anything of
value or anything of success. And I
think there are certain people who are
willing to work that hard and certain
people who aren't. I would argue that
the five people who called in sick that
day aren't willing to work that hard and
they probably haven't really gone much
further in life than that Westm stock
room. my side hustle business, which
where I actually made the most of my
money in high school, was um I grew up
in Marin County, which is a relatively
affluent neighborhood, and there are
some people with that are a lot more
affluent than others. And uh there were
certain girls whose parents would throw
them very extravagant sweet 16s, and
there were other girls whose parents
wouldn't, and I saw a hole in the market
there. Uh so my high school business was
I would uh finance uh basically birthday
sweet 16s uh for anybody who wanted a
sweet 16. I did this for a couple years
between the years of me being 16 and 17
years old. I would run out of venue. I
would get a DJ and my only condition was
they could hire they could invite
anybody they want. It was going to be
their birthday. Their name was going to
be on the banner. The DJ was going to do
shout outs to their name. But I got to
charge cover charge. And I also got to
make the party dramatically larger. Um,
and and invite anybody from every other
high school in Marin County.
>> And I I turned this into a real
business. I would get the venue. I'd get
insurance for the venue. I would I would
go to the local gym and get the roided
out meattheads. I'd give them 50 bucks
for the night. And they would they would
block the side doors so nobody snuck in.
And uh I spent so much money on the
first party that my parents were worried
that I was going to lose all my all my
savings that I I'd saved up for throw
that one event. And the funny joke was I
I had a pencil box to to collect all the
cash. And then within about 10 minutes
of the party, I couldn't there was there
was too much cash. I couldn't close the
pencil box anymore. So I I ran to the
bathroom and I took out like a garbage
bag and I just started stuffing it with
cash. And then that became like a
business that ran for like the next
couple years until it didn't really make
sense to host parties.
>> So like how much money would you make on
a party or something?
>> I would net like 2,000 bucks a weekend
and I would do like two to three parties
per month. Uh so it was a good little
side business for high school. Talk to
me about the experience of starting a
hedge fund and getting a little bit more
serious about the investing side of
things from a young age. It
>> wasn't until my senior of high school
that I actually made money trading. And
I got very fortunate through a
combination of uh
lucking out with volatility and not
understanding risk management
where I was trading out of the money
call options and put options against
triple levered ETFs that tracked the
banking sector during the financial
crisis. Um, so things that would an ETF
that would swing, you know, anywhere
between 10 to 30% on a daily basis given
what the Federal Reserve was doing on
TARP or no TARP or Lehman getting
bankrupt or Bear Steins getting acquired
by JPM. I had made a few hundred
thousand bucks um trading over a few uh
short weekend a short week windows um on
on derivatives against those instruments
and that was like a good thing and a bad
thing for me. The good thing was that
like it gave me a ton of confidence in
myself and I convinced myself that I was
a genius. And the bad thing was it gave
me way too much confidence in myself and
convinced me that I was a genius. I
decided that I wasn't going to go to
college and I was going to start a hedge
fund straight out of high school. I got
a series 65 license, which is the
license you need to to start a hedge
fund. And um there was a local financial
adviser that I I spent some time with
for a summer and he did PWM for uh some
high net worth individuals and some of
those guys saw me trading on my screen
like oh if you start something we'll put
like 10 15 20,000 bucks into it and I
ended up raising a fund in January of09
and I rolled my money into that fund
which is the largest check in the fund
and then I raised you know additional $3
million from call it 45 individuals so
lots of tiny checks that didn't really
mean a whole lot to anybody and launched
a fund in January of09. Uh so timing was
definitely on my side. Fund con focused
on concentrated positions in triple
lever ETFs, momentum trading on high
volt tech stocks and then derivatives on
those two strategies to get even more
leverage on on the first two strategies.
Um so like kind of like I just had no
idea what I was doing but but thankfully
the market was forgiving of a strategy
like that but extreme volatility along
the way. I had certain months where I
was down 37%, one month I was down 51%.
August of 2011, I remember as distinctly
being one of the worst months of my life
because it was the European debt crisis
when Greek when Greece was on the on the
crux of of of defaulting and I think the
market had 13 consecutive down days and
I was short bull. Um I actually
experienced why you could actually go
into debt running a venture capital firm
but thankfully recovered from that. It
took a few months but that was a very
very painful month. I was in the Bay
Area and I just kept hearing more and
more about tech and I didn't
particularly enjoy running a hedge fund.
I I did well financially relative to my
age doing it, but I didn't like sitting
in front of a computer screen for 15
hours a day. It's a very lonely job and
it's a very stressful job. I think
people don't like people in venture
complain that the feedback loops are too
long. I I agree the feedback loops in
hedge funds are too tight. I think you
can convince yourself you're a good
investor or convince yourself you're a
bad investor
too quickly in in in hedge funds. And I
think there's which is why I mean if you
look at hedge funds by by in default
they tend to have a shorter uh duration
of life than like a legacy private
equity firm or legacy venture capital
firm because it's just very hard to
outperform in public markets for
extended periods of time. But I was in
the Bay Area and I wanted to learn more
about tech just because it was my
backyard and I kept reading about it and
I started cold emailing VCs, angel
investors, founders, just anybody I
could read about online and and Silicon
Valley is a nice place. people are are
pretty receptive to cold emails and I
got a few meetings with individuals and
uh I just learned more about tech and I
wanted to find a way to immerse myself
in the ecosystem and I just spent more
time with individuals and I wasn't
really getting anywhere. So I was like I
kind of if I want to do this for a
living I kind of just I can't be one
foot in one foot out. I need to just
immerse myself into this entirely. Um so
I decided to wind down my hedge fund and
and focus on that and the hedge fund did
well. Everybody produced multiples on on
their investment and then I tried to get
a job at one of the big venture capital
firms. I ultimately got a couple of
interviews and I remember I look back on
this and cringe but one of the one of
the first guys who ever took a meeting
with me I reconnected with recently um
this guy named David Crane. Uh he runs
Google Ventures and I shot him a cold
email and he responded and he was one he
was probably the most senior person who
responded and he asked me to come in for
a meeting and I wore a suit and tie and
I walked into the office. It was my
first time walking into like a venture
capital from a and I felt like a
salesman. Uh, everybody was wearing
jeans, t-shirt, baseball cap, sneakers,
and just based on the way I dressed, I
knew I blew it on on the initial
meeting. But he was kind. He gave me
some pointers. He gave me feedback. And
I met a few other people as well. But
the consistent feedback was, "Hey,
listen. Your background is not that
relevant to venture capital, but you
should consider starting a company
instead." And over time, I've just
learned that there actually is no
relevant background to venture capital.
Similarly, there's no relevant
background to starting Art Gallery,
apparently. And everybody suggested I
should start a company. And I think
that's terrible advice to give anybody.
You should never advise anybody to start
a company. they should start it on their
own or not start one at all. But I ended
up taking that advice and I started a
company and I funneled everything I had
left over from my hedge fund into that
company. And this is in mid 2014 when
marketplace lending uh was a popular
sector. Yeah.
>> So, think companies like Lending Club
and and Prosper. And I thought that
sector was going to be the next big
thing because given the rate of capital
going into it, the rate of expo um
growth of those companies and I thought
that if that sector would reach its full
potential, there would need to be a
liquid secondary market for it because
those loans did have maturity periods.
And those maturity periods scaled
anywhere from three years to 5 years to
seven years. And um you know, banks
trade debt like a liquid asset class all
the time. So why wouldn't the
individuals trading on these platforms
be able to have the same same access to
liquidity? So I wanted to build an
exchange that allowed debt investors to
have that same uh level of liquidity. So
I selfunded this company with everything
I made previously and I built out a team
and went to the regulatory framework of
setting up an exchange. And then 14
months in when I had a product I was
actually ready to raise external
financing for that sector had completely
collapsed.
I think Sequoia started writing Prosper
down to zero and then and Lending Club
had plummeted like 85% from its peak IPO
price and I had spent my entire net
worth building a supplemental product to
to a collapse industry. Pretty much
everything I made on my hedge fund I I
lost on that company and ended up in
debt. And that was kind of my first
reality check in life when I realized no
no I'm actually not a genius and I could
lose money and maybe I should have just
gone to college. Like why did I put
myself through all of this? One of the
venture capital firms that I pitched
that company to was a firm called Core
Innovation Capital. The founding partner
of that firm is a guy named Aron Chute.
Um, who's one of the kindest people I've
ever met in my life. He's just just a
good good guy. And, uh, COR's focus is a
investing in fintech that provides
upward mobility for the emerging middle
class. So, somewhat impact in nature,
but very much focused on returns. And
when I wound down the company, I ended
up reaching out to him and he gave me a
job. Um, so I ended up ultimately
getting my venture capital job. Um, uh,
flat broke. And when I ended up in all
this debt, I needed a way to restructure
it. And that was probably the worst
moment of my life was sitting in the
waiting room of a of a bankruptcy
lawyer's office trying to figure out
what type of bankruptcy I need to file
and ended up being chapter 13, which is
a not a write-off of debt, but a
restructuring for 5 years. And
thankfully things worked out and I wiped
it all off within two years. Um, so it
was a was a nice comeback. But um,
>> what was the headsp space like at that
time?
>> It's awful. There's nothing there's
nothing there's nothing pleasant about
that experience. Um, in hindsight,
losing your net worth is a lesson better
learned at 24 years old than 54 years
old. So, I'm grateful for that. The
learning there is if you're going to
start a startup company, raise other
people's money instead of your own
money. Um,
>> I remember once when I was explaining
this to institutional LPs in the early
days, it was something I was very
embarrassed about and I was trying to
figure out like how to how to talk about
it. Jerry Yang was one of my LPs who I
spoke to about it and then he said, "No,
I knew about it." And I he's like I I
loved it. And I was like, "Why? Why did
you love He goes, "You should wear that
as an entrepreneurial badge of honor."
He goes, "Any founder in the world with
a failed company would have been in that
same exact position had they put their
own money up for a company." He's like,
"That's that's true entrepreneur. That's
like that's true entrepreneurship. You
you put everything you had into
something because you believed in it.
And when it didn't work, you had to
start from scratch." He's like, "Venture
capital is you put everything somebody
else has into whatever you believe in.
And if it doesn't work out, then you get
a job at Apple or Google, right?" So,
um, so that was actually a really
interesting way to to to phrase it for
me. Not that I, you know, don't think
there's various tiers of
entrepreneurship, but like the the the
whole concept of wearing is a badge of
honor. It's like, yeah, you lost your
own money on something that, you know,
typically most people just lose other
people's money on. Looking back on it,
I'm like, that was cool. That was that
was the that was the epitome of my
resilience journey, right? like I I got
knocked as hard on my ass as I possibly
could have and was um humbled as much as
somebody possibly could have been and
had to start completely from scratch
once again. And then I ended up with an
entry-le job at a small venture capital
firm. And that's where I met my partner
today, Alex David. He was a he was a
partner at Core Innovation Capital. And
within a few months of being at core, it
became pretty obvious to me that fintech
series A impactish investing wasn't
wasn't what I wanted to spend my career
doing. Even though I have a ton of
respect for Arian and the mission that
that firm is on and they've actually
done phenomenally well um with returns,
they actually led the seed round of
Ripple. I ultimately um wanted to figure
out how to become a generalist seedstage
investor. And the reason I focused on
seed stage was because that was the only
place where I thought I could access
enough capital to the point where I
mattered. Any later stage, there's no
amount of capital that I thought I could
access that would actually that would
make me a relevant conversation those
places. So that's why seed was the was
the was the obvious starting point for
me and then I needed to find a way to
build a track record that didn't involve
working at a firm for a decade until I
got you know serious check writing
ability or raising my own fund because
who would give me a fund at that point
in life and that's when I learned about
Angelus. What's behind the name
abstract?
>> Abstract. Uh, a couple things. The
definition of abstract is is existing in
concept but not reality. And that's kind
of pretty uh synonymous with seedstage
companies. Um, and two, I wanted the
name to to to show up places quickly.
And I remember back then I spent all my
days on Crunchb and Crunchbase had
things alphabetically listed and I
realized if my firm started with an A,
it would be at the top of the list on
everything. Um, so I wanted a firm that
started with A and so that's kind of
where I started. And then I wanted a
word um that was easy to remember.
Didn't sound like any other venture
capital firm. And then came up with the
word abstract. Then I found the
definition for abstract. And I'm like
this actually just seems like a perfect
name for a seed stage venture capital
firm.
>> If you were to describe the nature of
whatever chip you have on your shoulder
from let's say um you know your early to
mid20s through to today, how has it
changed and how would you describe it?
>> I think the number one thing that's
changed is in the early days I just
wanted to be accepted as an outsider.
And I think that's happened because I
actually think Silicon Valley is a very
special place that if you prove that to
earn your seat at the table, um, no one
actually cares about anything else. It's
it's it's you're at this seat for a
reason and and we'll leave it at that.
So I think that is no longer that's no
longer a chip. Um, I think at any at any
instance of the of the firm's history,
it was, you know, the early days were
like they don't know what they're doing.
They're just they're just following
other people. I'm like, okay, cool. Like
I'll start leading deals. And then we
started leading deals and it's like okay
like they only know what to do at seed.
They have no idea what to do at later
stage. And they might be right. We're
still early and and doing some early
side later stage things. But in any type
of business when there's other people
who who have a right to be there and
they see you as someone who doesn't have
a right to be there um you're going to
get like a lot of shade thrown your way.
I encourage my founders not to focus on
competition. I try not to focus on
competition. And I just try to focus on
doing what we can as best as we possibly
can. And I think everything we have done
historically has has proven that, you
know, we can do what we think we can do,
what we said we can do, what we said we
will do. And I think we can continue
that pace.
>> Say a couple adjectives each about your
parents. How would you describe them?
>> My mom is really tough. Um, but also
like the most loving mom in the world.
And my dad is actually like totally
soft, like really soft-hearted guy, but
like very strict about like having
direction um in life. So my dad's number
one thing was like as long as you're
working hard and you're good at
something and you know how to how to
create something out of it, you'll be
successful at it. And
you know, my brother, he he started a
company as well. Um, a vertical SAS
company that sells into the into the
automotive industry, which when we moved
to the Bay Area is the is the industry
my dad got into. He ended up working um
at car dealerships and then working his
way up until eventually became a partner
of a franchise group that primarily
deals in in in like luxury exotic cars.
And my brother worked with him for a
little bit and learned a little bit
about that industry. and you know he he
bootstrapped a vertical SAS business and
that he just recently sold for a little
less than 30 million bucks. Um but the
cool thing about it was he went to YC
and raised less than $600,000 for the
company and and it just ran it with him
and his co-founder and no employees and
they got it to just shy of six million
of ARR but like highly highly profitable
um because besides two employees and um
and some hosting fees and some data
licenses like there was no expenses to
the business whatsoever. But there are
certain founders like him and other
people in our portfolio that I point to
um of how much money you like how much
you could actually do with just you know
$600,000 or a million dollars. But the
reason I pointed to him is um we were
raised the exact same way. We think
about things differently but you know I
think for two immigrant parents um
having kids that have both you know
built things you know my brother sold
the company for $30 million bucks. I
have a venture capital firm that's you
know just shy of $2 billion in AUM
today. um with very humble beginnings
like whatever they did instilled
something in us, instilled some sort of
a chip in a shoulder in us, but I think
the probably the smartest thing that
they had done and I don't know if this
specific to to to Iranian immigrants or
other types of immigrants, but my mom
was way more focused on us being in the
best neighborhoods growing up versus the
best house. and she thought being
exposed um to what is possible is better
than to have a nice house or a big house
in in a place where you know you're
you're a big fish in a little pond. Uh
she, you know, we were the we were the
tiniest fish in the biggest pond in the
neighborhood that we'd grown up in. So I
had friends whose whose fathers were the
CEO of Visa or the CEO of Blue Shield
and lived in these extravagant homes. So
I knew these things existed and you know
I knew the path to to that wasn't just
being a doctor lawyer and and there was
other things there. So I think the the
best thing that my parents did for for
me and my brother um was exposing us to
that.
>> What else outside of art and investing
gets most of your attention?
>> I have a wife and three kids. Um my wife
is is pretty involved in my business
actually. And so
>> I actually met my wife at a holiday
party. Uh when I first met her, she was
the director of market marketing and
communications at Bessemer. During our
relationship, she became the head of
marketing communications uh at Spark
Capital and now she sort of freelances
uh and and keeps herself busy by making
sure we don't screw those things up at
Abstract. Um she she oversaw our entire
rebrand and she's very big on like
founder experience and and and aesthetic
um of of the brand and the firm that we
built. I met her I want to say when I
just turned 26 years old. So really she
was there at the founding days of
abstract. And what was really special
about her or meeting somebody like her
was that I love what I do and I love
talking about it. And because she worked
in the industry herself for six or seven
years, she understands the significance
of something that I might be excited
about. She understands significant the
significance of something that I might
be upset about. So, it's actually really
interesting. And she appreciates what I
do. She she views it as a family
business. She's she's very involved.
She, you know, she she's outside the
office. She she's she's friends with
everybody. Uh she's she's close with my
partner. Um and she actually cares about
what I do and and she's always been my
biggest cheerleader since day one. March
2020 came around and uh we were engaged.
Um, and we ended up having to postpone
our wedding because every venue was
closed for the next 2 years. And we saw
a lot of our friends, you know,
traveling the world and really enjoying
their co experience. And we basically
decided whether we were going to do that
or whether we were just going to start
having kids. And so we did start having
kids and and our first daughter uh Lily
was born in October of 2020. And then so
during CO we actually had two kids and
raised two funds. So we were very
productive during CO and and people say
if we're able to do all of that during
CO uh we'll get through anything. So
basically in two years we lived in one
house together and had two kids together
and I ran my business from the house for
two two years and uh it was a great
experience and honestly we didn't even
argue once throughout it. So that's when
it kind of became that it was just like
a a made to be relationship and then we
ended up getting married in the backyard
of our current home uh when we were
pregnant with our second child. And now
we have uh we just had a third um in
December uh who's now almost 6 months
old. So
>> family art and investing.
>> Family art and investing. I have no time
for anything else.
>> If you think about the entire process
now of this little world you've
constructed around yourself to have this
incredible um high throughput, high uh
expansive frame of reference to use's
term and just all the things you're
doing 30 pitch meetings a week. If you
had to zone in on the single thing that
gives you the most energy over and over
again, what is it?
>> The companies that I decide to invest in
when I decide to invest in them.
>> Like that moment.
>> That moment. It's it's you meet all
these companies. It's kind of like uh
it's like you meet a company like,
"Okay, okay, okay, hey, hey, this is
cool. This is really interesting." And
then you start peeling back some layers
and you just get more and more excited
about it. And then and then you have to
win and then like it's you pull out
every single stop, you clear your
calendar to whatever you need to do to
to earn your slot on that foundaries cap
table and and to earn their trust as
their as their partner. There have been
windows of time where we went two
months, three months without investing
in a single company. And in those
three-month periods, I'm like, "What
happened?" I know there was good
companies. Did we just not see any of
them? Did we pass on ones that were
obviously good? And I kind of just feel
like I had three months where I just
wasted time. Like, we we achieved
nothing of value in the last 90 days.
Like, how do we prevent that from
happening again? Are we not seeing
enough companies? I find a lot of
excitement and and enthusiasm. And then
also, um I mean, outside of family
related things, obviously watching, you
know, my kids talk or speak or catch a
ball or draw something. I mean that that
that that trumps everything relating
into business when a company you
invested in really starts to work. Um
that's always really exciting when you
see the stars start to align for one of
your companies and and you can be there
to, you know, fuel the fire in any way
you possibly can and and be the be the
pit crew to that Formula 1 driver. I
think those things are are really
special. The only part of this ecosystem
I haven't asked about is the LP side.
What have you learned matters to LPS?
And I guess like a similar set of
sensibilities of like how you structure
things to find, you know, pick and win
the best the best LPS as well and the
sort of process that you run to do so.
>> So we're very fortunate. We have a
incredibly high quality LP base that
consists of blue chip endowments and
foundations and founders of of of
generational companies and either them
directly or through their or through
their foundations as well. um great
hospitals, just great organizations to
make money for, candidly. Uh some and
then some other, you know, more
traditional down the fairway guys who
are just good because they've done this
for a very very long time and they're
good mentors because they've been LPs
and other funds for 20 to 30 years. I
think there's two types of LPS you you
meet. Um probably more than that, but
I'll I'll narrow it down into two. Um
there's like the ones with imagination
and the ones without imagination. Um,
and I don't want to like throw shade at
any at anyone in particular, but you
know, there are certain LPs who have
built portfolios of amazing venture
capital firms and they had invested in
them before they were amazing venture
capital firms. Um, and they and they
were fund one commitments to to people
who might necessarily have checked all
the boxes of a traditional venture
capital firm.
I think by and large those people have
done dramatically better than than the
LPs who may be less imaginative and tend
to only back, you know, managers who've
spun out from other platforms, right? I
think that's like the easy manager to
back. It's okay, cool. This person's
been a venture capitalist for 10 years.
You can look at their historical track
record and pretty much underwrite what
their future track record is going to
be. Arguably, their future track record
won't be as good as their historical
track record because the deals they were
able to access those platform funds
might not be deals that they have the
ability to access or win in the future.
Paula Valent is a great example of this.
I think I don't think she'd mind me
using her name. Um, she used to be a
Bowden and now she's a Rockefeller. You
know, she was a day one LP to Chase
Coleman. I think she was very early to
Josh Kushner. She was my first
institutional LP. and you know Bowden
small endowment but I actually think
there's stories that show that it's
actually one of the best performing
endowments in the world um relative to
its scale and Stan Ducken Miller
famously chairs their IC oftentimes
you'll see that the managers she's in
are are mega managers today but she was
with them since day one I think like
anything right like you know if you
there's a riskreward profile you take
more risk with somebody that the reward
potential is higher if you take less
risk with somebody the the the risk is
lower uh the the reward is higher
looking for individuals at least
especially if you're if you have a more
non-pedigreed background like I had that
are going to be more interested in
manager strategy fit versus like what is
your track record and why should I care
and then in terms of like what you need
to do to make yourself appealing to LPs
right like there's multiple tiers of LPs
there's the highest tier of LP that can
access any fund they they want and
they're already in amazing venture
capital firms and then there's you know
LPs that don't get into those deals and
are looking for more exposure to to
other types of companies we, you know,
fortunately have um an LP base that is
heavily concentrated in in the best
firms in the world and then they added
abstract to their roster and that
actually ended up being very beneficial
for us because those are a lot of
institutions that hadn't added a manager
to their platform in a while because
they already had the best managers and
and getting abstract added to that
roster was kind of like a a signal to
the market that pay attention to this
fund. And I think what we had brought to
the table um was something that they
were already bought into. And it was
that, you know, these multi-stage
platform brands will continue to
dominate and they're going to continue
to get double- digit ownership and the
best companies in the world early. Their
funds will get bigger and bigger and as
LPs, your exposure to those companies
will be less and less, but you still
will have exposure to the greatest
companies. And I think what we brought
to the table was definitive proof that
we're accessing the same quality of
company. um granted less ownership but
granted dramatically more relative
ownership. When they look at our fund,
if there's overlapping companies in our
fund with any other fund they have in
their portfolio, 94% of the time they
have orders of magnitude more look
through ownership to that company
through our fund than they would through
one of the others.
>> What have we not talked about in the
world of VC investing that you think is
important and intrigues you? One thing I
tend to talk about somewhat frequently,
which I'm trying to figure out whether
or not it's a feature or a bug, is
the the scale of the companies that are
staying private. And it's kind of like a
a one hand feeds the other type of
thing. Because as these mega funds and
you know, all of them scale um they can
only scale because
>> other ones are scaling.
>> Exactly. Right. So they can scale
because the size of the companies that
are staying private are scaling. Right.
So if you have, you know, a 5 billion, 8
billion, 10 billion, 12 billion venture
capital firm, you need places where you
can write 500 million to1 billion
checks. You now have that in a way that
you didn't have 10 years ago. And you
probably have about a dozen, maybe 15
places you can write checks that large
in venture capital today. Those
companies fan the flame that allow these
VC funds to get larger and larger. and
and you know they they break the
narrative that venture doesn't scale
because venture actually does scale if
you can write billion-dollar checks into
companies that are still growing. Um
because you know the the companies in
venture that are the the largest are
still outpacing the growth of any of
their public company comps. So they
still do have venture scale growth um
and they do have but they're they're
still private companies. The one thing
that's interesting to think about from
that perspective is what that actually
means um for an LP and what it means for
early managers. I think it actually
benefits us um in a way that it might
not benefit the later stage guys. But I
think one thing that's kind of like an
unintended consequence of this is it
maintains like hyperproductivity in
these companies. Um I always joke that a
joke it's honest truth but that early
liquidity was the bug and not the future
of crypto. Um people got rich too
quickly and they stopped building
things. This latest swath of these
companies that can absorb 500 billion
to1 billion dollar checks. The reason
the productivity of these companies is
is comparable to an early stage startup
company is because there's been no early
liquidity and you have people still
grinding and working and the liquidity
is coming via these you know 1% to 5%
tender offers which is more than enough
you know give people a down payment on a
house but not enough to give people you
know $40 million of cash and
generational wealth
>> and and the restrictions on secondary
have gotten really really tight. So you
can make an argument that like excess
liquidity early is a killer of
productivity and is there a way to
throttle that and it's yeah you keep
your companies private you keep people
satisfied with with liquidity. I think
that's very good from a company building
perspective. I think it's problematic
from a from a venture returns
perspective. I mean no LP is interested
in in you know getting liquidity in
three to 5% installments. Um so I do
think there needs to be a solution to
that. there's this seemingly like a a
new swath of of continuation vehicles
popping up in Silicon Valley. So, it
seems like there will be ways for people
to get large sums of liquidity and and
the venture managers get to maintain
their basis and their position of these
companies. So, I think it'll all net
itself out, but I don't think the end
result is ultimately these companies are
all just going to go public. I think
they've all found a hack um which is,
you know, your top 100 performers today,
if you give them all instant liquidity
on their position tomorrow, 92 of them
probably might not be your top
performers tomorrow, right? And if you
want these companies to continue like
running circles around their their
public counterparts, I think this, you
know,
I shouldn't call it trickle liquidity,
but you know, it's not like winning a
lottery. It's not like if these
companies go public, I mean the what was
the the instance with Google like
something like over a hundred million
over a hundred people made over $und00
million,
>> something crazy
>> and and like 92 of them were never heard
of again, right? and then the other
eight ended up becoming VCs
who who wanted to make more money than
that. So I think that's kind of the risk
you run into uh wi with with that kind
of liquidity is as people as people win
these lottos and these companies are so
large right now that that is the type of
liquidity that the early hires and and
the senior management of those companies
will will experience.
>> It's a really interesting way to think
about it that I I hadn't I hadn't heard
that specific angle on it before. Um but
I glad I'm glad I asked the question. I
feel like we've covered like a
tremendous amount of information in
three hours or whatever um and gotten so
much of of your life. It's so
interesting um how all the pieces fit
together and how your tendency for
approaching a new situation or problem
uh they they sort of mirror each other
and you've got this method that's I
think clearly emerged. So thank you so
much for the time. When I do this I ask
the same traditional closing question of
everybody. What is the kindest thing
that anyone's ever done for you
>> on a business standpoint? And it was
probably Arian Shu giving me that job at
Core Innovation Capital. I actually look
at that one single point in my life that
had I not landed a job at a venture
capital firm when I was flat broke with
nothing to my name, where would I have
ended up? Like would I have just gotten
a job somewhere where like I I there's a
million scenarios that I can point to
where I wouldn't have ended up where I
am today. So I could point a lot of
things to that guy giving me a job when
no one else in the world would have at
that point. Um so that's probably the
kindest thing someone's ever done for me
in business. kindest thing anything has
ever done through my personal life is my
wife just being like the perfect wife.
So, she truly is like the embodiment of
like
everything you need to succeed in life.
>> Thanks so much for your time.
>> Thank you.